One Thousand and One Nights is a collection of Middle Eastern folk tales compiled in Arabic during the Islamic Golden Age. This is different from the Middle Eastern tag as stories in the 1001 Nights Universe are mostly fantasy and historicaly oriented.
A VN with this tag offers special rewards for achieving 100% completion.
---
-----
For games using native 16:9 resolution
This story takes place sometime during the years 1801-1900 on Earth.
-----
This story takes place at a time between years 2000-2009 on Earth.
This story takes place at a time between years 1920-1929 on Earth.
This story takes place at a time between years 1901-2000 on Earth.
This story takes place at a time between years 1930-1939 on Earth.
This story takes place at a time between years 1940-1949 on Earth.
The gameplay is authentic 4-players Mahjong.
This story takes place at a time between years 1950-1959 on Earth.
This story takes place at a time between years 1960-1969 on Earth.
This story takes place at a time between years 1970-1979 on Earth.
This story takes place at a time between years 1980-1989 on Earth.
A major part of the story takes place during the years 1990-1999.
-----
This game contains scenes of someone being absorbed in part or as a whole into another being, usually a non-humanoid.
This game contains an achievements/trophies system.
This game features elements and themes related to the action genre.
This tag indicates that the game includes gameplay sequences challenging the player's speed, dexterity and reaction time.
One or more protagonists in this game are actors/actresses.
One or more heros in this game are actors.
One or more heroines in this game are actresses.
The visual novel has at least one heroine who has some sort of addiction.
The visual novel has a protagonist who has some sort of addiction.
These games don't have an in-game way of seeing the adult content. In the past, customers would have to buy a separate disk from the publisher in order to see any 18+ Content. Nowadays publishers typically release a free patch for their customers to download.
wew
In this visual novel the text box window's transparency/opacity can be adjusted from the game's settings menu.
This visual novel was made using [ Adobe Flash].
This story spends 'a lot of time' realizing the love between the couples in question because of any combination of the reasons below:
This VN contains scenes involving erotic lactation.
This VN has at least one scene where an adult character practice cosplay wearing teen clothes: school uniform, sport bloomers, cheerleding uniform or other clothes related to teen or high school life.
One or more of the heroes in this game are adults.
One or more of the heroines in this game are adults.
The protagonist of this game is an adult.
In these games, the box with the text occupies only part of the screen, usually at the bottom. This is by far the most common text presentation method.
This visual novel is consantly mixing both ADV and NVL styles of text, the game keeps switching between styles.
This game has at least one hero who is African.
This game has at least one heroine who is African.
The protagonist of this game is African.
A visual novel takes place in the afterlife, be it based on an existing mythological concept (such as heaven and hell in Abrahamic religions or Purgatory in Catholicism) or not.
Games that have some scenes in which a dedicated CG is shown after the sex scene showing the results of it.
Also known as "fucked silly".
The ahegao is an overly exaggerated orgasmic expression, the eyes usually rolled up with teardrops/sweat at times, the mouth wide open with the tongue sticking out and blushing cheeks.
One ore more of the heroes is an artificial intelligence.
These games have at least one heroine that is an artificial intelligence.
The protagonist is an artificial intelligence.
One of the heroes is an airhead.
One of the heroines is an airhead.
Protagonist is an airhead.
At least one of the support characters is an absolute airhead, happy-go-lucky-no-common-sense whatsoever girl.
This game features battles fought in the skies with airplanes.
Significant portions of the game is set on an airplane. Expect a lot time spent among the clouds.
play sex in bathroom
A hero's appearance in this game resembles to an albino; he has white hair, and his eyes have unnatural color (like red or almost transparent blue).
A heroine's appearance in this game resembles to an albino; she has white hair, and her eyes have unnatural color (like red or almost transparent blue).
The protagonist's appearance in this game resembles to an albino; he/she has white hair, and his/her eyes have unnatural color (like red or almost transparent blue).
The game features alchemy, either as a science that manipulates matter, or as a magical term.
This story has elements of alcoholism.
One or more heroes of this game are of extraterrestrial origin.
One of the heroines in this game is an extraterrestrial, a life form not originated from planet Earth.
Protagonist of this game is an extraterrestrial, a life form not originated from planet Earth.
All of the main heroes in the game are adults.
All of the main heroines in the game are adults.
This game is set on a school that only admits boys as students.
All characters in this visual novel have voice acting available.
This game is set on a school that only admits girls as students.
All the game's heroes are brothers to the protagonist.
All the game's heroines are sisters to the protagonist.
All the game's heroines are kemonomimi's
All the game's heroines are loli's, games made for lolicons.
All the heroines in this game are older than the protagonist.
Self-explanatory. All routes are available from the start of the game, there are no unlockable routes.
All the game's heroes are shotas, games made for shotacons.
This game features at least one scene where the tentacle goes all the way through the whole gastrointestinal tract, entering the anus and emerging from the mouth (or vice versa).
All the heroines in this game are younger than the protagonist.
This tag is for games that dwell the concepts like the existence of a parallel universe.
This light novel takes place in an alternate history or prominently features it as a theme. The VN's settings while reminiscent of our own History will differ from it, it can range from slight changes or be an alternate universe that only vaguely shares past events/people/places with our own reality.
This game allows users to start from alternative starting points after finishing a route. Usually at the turning point of the game where a user picks which route to continue.
A setting that has the same characters from its parent source but in a different environment, personality, and/or genre.
This game feature two or more nonidentical defloration scenes for one girl. eg. One defloration scene for a girl on her own route and another defloration scene of the same girl in harem route.
The visual novel contains amateur wrestling (Greco-Roman style).
This game has significant amount of scenes where only ambient sounds are playing.
American Football plays an important role in this games story.
A visual novel with this tag has one or more heroes from the United States of America and/or of American descent.
One or more heroines in this game are American.
The protagonist of this game is American.
The protagonist of this game suffers from amnesia.
A character in this game is suffering form amnesia. Or memory loss plays an important part in the games story in some other way.
This game has one or multiple amphibians taking an important role in the story. Or it has amphibians all around in multiple scenes with several lines of dialogue related to them.
This visual novel has many scenes set in an amusement park or a theme park.
A heroine would rather have anal sex or offers it as an alternative. (mostly to "protect" their virginity). Eg; the Rio route in Imouto Paradise.
This game features scenes where at least one of his characters give birth from the anus.
Anal fingering is the manual manipulation of the anus for the purpose of sexual arousal and sexual stimulation. It may constitute the entire sexual encounter or it may be part of mutual masturbation, foreplay or other sexual activities.
A visual novel in this tag contains at least one scene of anal fisting.
This game contains at least one sexual scene involving anal gaping.
This visual novel features at least one sexual scene involving anal grapeshot.
This visual novel features at least one scene where a character masturbates by sexually stimulating their anus. This may be achieved manually, by use of objects or tools, or by some combination of these methods.
This game features at least one sex scene containing a character being anally penetrated in some way.
This story features scenes with anal plug tails.
This game features scenes in which one or more characters are anally raped.
This game features at least one scene containing anal sex.
This story features scenes with anal toys. These are meant for sexual stimulation of the anus.
A variant of unbirth in which a character is inserted or consumed through the anus. In some instances, the consumed character is drawn up through the digestive tract to the stomach where they are digested in the traditional fashion. Most instances of this also count as anal penetration, but not necessarily sex.
This visual novel takes place in ancient Rome.
This game features a heroine suffering from androphobia - an exaggerated or irrational fear of men.
This VN has a character who acts like she's an older sister of another character which is indicated by them calling her Onee-chan, [name]-nee and whatnot, even though she's not actually their sister, adopted or otherwise.
One or more heroes of this game are angels.
One or more heroines of this game are angels.
Protagonist of this game is (or later becomes) an angel.
There are angels in this game.
This game features one or more scenes featuring anilingus.
The visual novel features a character cosplaying as an animal (dog, cat, bunny, etc).
This game features some scenes with animal abuse.
These games have an animal mascot character in them.
The protagonist of this game is a real-life animal or has the body of a real-life animal for a significant portion of the game.
Some games have strong ties to animals in their story. These tags are for those games.
The images are animated through either having a collection of multiple still images, pieces of a whole (such as having the eyes or legs being layered on top of a pre-drawn character with missing features that allow for animation), or any other method to achieve motion...
Not to be confused with Highly Animated Sprites, Animated CG means there is motion to the CG where either the heroine hand moving during sex scene CG or face motion like blinking or mouth talking, not limited to only sex scene CG
A visual novel with this tag contains animated CGs (blinking, moving, etc)
Character sprites feature small animations.
A visual novel with this tag contains at least one animated cutscene.
Any part of the game - excluding the movies - where there is animation from lips moving and bodies bouncing, to full on anime-style animation.
Contains one or more animated ending sequences.
Denied
This tag would refer to a game that contains highly animated sprites DURING sex scenes.
Contains one or more animated opening sequences.
This is when a VN has at least one sex scene that is animated
Animated Sexual Scenes
Character sprites in this vn (do not mix with sprites in gameplay parts if those exists -- only ADV parts counts) are animated (eyes blinking/mouthflaps). Do not mix with typical changes of facial expressions/poses.
This game is based on an Anime or has an Anime based on it. It does not necessarily need to share the exact same story, but it should at least take place in the same 'universe' with a similar cast (like a side-story).
This game strongly revolves around the theme of Japanese animation.
A heroine of this game is an announcer.
This visual novel features an another world, which is reachable, depending on the theme, through magic, getting summoned, or technological means.
link
Rather than being a singular story, this visual novel is a collection of many short stories, that have nothing to do with each other.
One or more characters in this VN are personifications of inanimate objects. This includes cases of moe anthropomorphism, except for anthropomorphized living beings (for animals, use relevant catgirl/doggirl/etc. tags instead).
This games protagonist is an Antihero.
A significant part of this visual novel takes place in an apartment building.
The story involves the end of the world as we know it.
Apotemnophilia is a neurological disorder characterized by the intense and long standing desire for amputation of a specific limb
This visual novel was created for April Fool's Day.
Setting includes a palace that is Arabian or Middle Eastern in appearance.
At least one of the heroines in the game are Arabic.
A heroine in this game is an archer, be it in a sport-related capacity or as a general vocational skill.
School archery club and the activities related to it takes an important role in this story.
Some part of the game takes place in an Arcology.
The game has many scenes set in an arena.
This novel includes some variation of the "Arkanoid" game.
This VN contains at least one scene involving sexual activities practiced while one of the characters is wearing an armbinder.
The game contains at least one scene that features armpit licking.
These games contain at least one scene of armpit sex. This is a form of non-penetrative sex where the penis is inserted in a person's armpit.
The game contains a scene where during a sex act, a character's arms are held behind them.
This visual novel have ARPG elements on it.
The game with this tag contain events involving at least one character whose marriage is arranged by someone other than the couple getting wedded.
This type of hero believes that he is superior to everyone else in every aspect and takes great pleasure in pointing this out at every opportunity.
This type of heroine believes that she is superior to everyone else, in every aspect, and takes great pleasure in pointing this out at every opportunity.
This type of protagonist believes that he is superior to everyone else, in every aspect, and takes great pleasure in pointing this out at every opportunity.
When a Hero can't express romantic feelings and have knowledge of that, they are called arromantic.
When a Heroine can't express romantic feelings and have knowledge of that, they are called arromantic.
When a protagonist can't express romantic feelings and have knowledge of that, they are called arromantic.
The plot revolves around artificial intelligences at least to some degree and ponders their true nature.
Someone used drugs/chemicals/machines/implants/DNA mixing/etc... to achieve something that is not normally possible naturally on another living being... usually to improve physical capabilities or solve disability problems...
One of this games hero is an artist.
One of this games heroines is an artist.
Protagonist of this game is an artist.
An Asexual Hero is a character in a game that isn't really interested in sex, at least for the most part of the game. This character isn't really interested in the opposite sex and can brush off most of their advances, though only to a limit.
An Asexual Heroine is a character in a game that isn't really interested in sex, at least for the most part of the game. This character isn't really interested in the opposite sex and can brush off most of their advances, though only to a limit.
An Asexual Protagonist is a lead character in a game that isn't really interested in sex, at least for the most part of the game. This protagonist isn't really interested in the opposite sex and can brush off most of their advances, though only to a limit.
Game has many scenes set in a Asian-style castle.
Game has many scenes set in a Asian-style manor.
The game has many scenes set in an Asian-style palace
A hero of this game is (or was) an assassin.
A heroine of this game is (or was) an assassin.
Protagonist of this game is (or was) an assassin.
Astronomy club and the activities related to it takes an important role in this story.
These games have at least one hero who plays sports often, either amateur or professionally.
At least one heroine in this visual novel regularly practices athletic sports and competes either on a professional or an amateur level.
A visual novel with this tag contains at least one protagonist who engages in sport(s), be it professionally or as an amateur.
A considerable time of this games story takes place during a school athletics festival or during the preparations for one showing the activities and preparations of students.
This game has one or more scenes of attempts of rape.
This story features an attempt at suicide.
This visual novel uses a non-anime graphical style for its sprites, CGs and any other art that may be used within the game.
These games contain sexual scenes between an Aunt and her nephew. They may or may not be blood-related.
These games contain sexual scenes between an aunt and her niece. They may or may not be blood-related.
This visual novel takes place in Australia, an Oceanian country comprising the mainland of the Australian continent, the island of Tasmania, and numerous smaller islands.
This game has an optional commentary mode, allowing you to play the game with interjections from the writer/staff.
This visual novel features at least one heroine with autism.
This visual novel features at least one scene where a futanari, or a male character with tits, is performing a boobjob on himself.
This visual novel features at least one scene where a futanari, or a male character ejaculates onto his own face or body, often multiple times, covering themself in their own semen.
This visual novel features at least one scene where a character is performing cunnilingus on herself, a sexual practice called autocunnilingus.
This visual novel features at least one scene where a futanari or male character performing a blowjob on themselves.
This character (usually a futanari) penetrates himself with his own penis/tail/tentacle.
This game always saves data to the same file, usually at fixed points in the story (a process known as Autosave). The player is not able to keep multiple saves at different points in the game, so if they wish to see the results of making a different choice they will often need to restart the game from the beginning.
The game has many scenes taking place during Autumn.
The main character is completely average, almost one dimensional. They have no defining traits.
For VNs where blood-related incest is an option not a rule
At least one of heroes of this visual novel can die during the course of the story but this death is avoidable.
At least one of the heroines can die in this visual novel, but this death is entirely avoidable.
The protagonist of this visual novel may die, but their death is avoidable.
Homosexual sex scenes can be completely avoided in the game under certain conditions.
Netorare situations can be avoided in the game under certain conditions. The scenes where you can choose not to witness the NTR events, but they still happen behind the scenes, should not be counted as avoidable.
This game features rape scenes that can be avoided by making right choices or succeeding in gameplay stages.
This tag makes the game awesome.
At least one of the heroines is really special... in a good sense.
The favorite weapon of your neighbourhood viking.
These games feature characters from the Axis Powers Hetalia series.
One of the heroes in a story is an ayakashi.
Babysitting is a company for temporarily caring for a child. Babysitting is commonly performed as a job by all ages.
During the H scenes of this VN one can hear continuos background voices (usually moans or sucking sounds in the form of looped track). It does not have anything to do with voiced lines of heroines (even if they contains similar moans or sucking sounds).
link[87]=on&submit=on#kekka
A backlog enables the player to review recent conversations.
This visual novel's backlog has jump buttons, usually adjacent to the transcribed lines, that allow you to jump back to the corresponding scene of any line and play the visual novel from that scene onward.
This visual novel has a back skip function.
The game has at least one bad ending. The nature and the number of the bad ending(s) can vary.
The bad endings in this game have their own stories compared to the games that "Game Over" shortly after a bad choice, with or without an undesirable last scene like a bloody death or sexual assault etc.
The translation of this game leaves a lot to be desired. Not necessarily because of typos, but because the translator obviously did not have the best grasp of English, or was not a native speaker.
The game features a negative true ending, where the protagonist loses what he worked toward throughout the story or gets defeated by a rival or an enemy.
One of the games heroes of this game is a baker.
One of the games heroines of this game is a patissiere.
The protagonist of this game is a baker.
This game takes place during the Bakumatsu period of Japan.
A Hero of this game is bald.
A heroine of this game is bald.
The protagonist of this game is bald.
This game features scenes of ballbusting.
This VN contains at least one sexual scenes where a character engages in a non-penetrative sexual act called ball-cupping.
A balljob is when a man or futanari stimulates a man's penis by rubbing it between their balls. Alternatively, or additionally, the man may take a more active role by thrusting his penis between the character's balls.
The game contains sexual scenes featuring the act of balls sucking, also known as tea bagging.
Balls are touching
Bara (薔薇, "rose"), also known as the wasei-eigo construction "Mens' Love" (メンズラブ) or ML, is a Japanese jargon term for a genre of art and fictional media that focuses on male same-sex love and desire, usually created by and for gay men.
This tag is used on stories where one or more male characters sexually assault another male.
Games with this tag mostly take place inside a bar or a similar location.
One of the characters is a barmaid.
One of the game's heroes is a bartender.
Protagonist is a bartender.
School baseball club and the activities related to it takes an important role in this story.
Baseball plays a part in this game's story.
In these visual novels, the characters may be fictional but the plot is based on real-life events.
This game is based on a light novel.
This visual novel is an official adaptation of a preexisting manga.
This visual novel is based on or an adaptation of an anime.
This game is based on a web novel.
Basketball plays an important role in this game
A game with this tag contains at least one sex scene which takes place in a bathroom, be it public or private.
This game features scenes where at least two people or two groups use their intelligence and ability to think quickly to try to defeat each other.
At least some of the characters are involved in a twisted game which involves killing other participants to ensure their own survival.
This game features one or more scenes featuring BDSM.
The story of this visual novel takes place on a beach or beaches.
A game with this tag involves beat 'em up gameplay.
At least one of the heroes in this game is a beautician, and he might work at a beauty salon.
The plot involves a beauty pageant, or some kind of beauty competition event. This can involve male or female contestants.
This game contains at least one scene where a character [url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nocturnal_enuresis"]urinates involuntarily while sleeping.[/url]
The game contains at least one scene that features a bellyjob.
stepping on person's belly
This game involves sex with animals.
This game features a story of betrayal.
This visual novel was created using the Ethornell/Buriko General Interpreter visual novel engine.
large ass
One or more heroines in this VN has a rather large, shapely, ample posterior, usually accompanied by curvaceous and enticing hips and thighs. This is either obvious in the art by the ass sticking out (e.g. v18755) or discussed by characters in the game.
One or more protagonists in this VN has a rather large, shapely, ample posterior, usually accompanied by curvaceous and enticing hips and thighs. This is either obvious in the art by the ass sticking out (e.g. v18755) or discussed by characters in the game.
One or more heroines of this VN have big, huge or gigantic breasts.
The protagonist of this VN has big, huge or gigantic breasts.
The voice acting in this VN uses multiple microphones or a dummy head mic to create a binaural effect, creating a 3-D stereo sound sensation for the listener of actually being in the room with the characters. This technique is more commonly used for drama CDs, but sometimes used for VNs, such as the Diabolik Lovers series.
In this story a biological weapon is in the process of creation and/or in use.
This game has one or multiple birds taking an important role in the story. Or it has birds all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
This game features scenes where its characters give birth.
In this VN there is a birthrate decline.
One of the heroes is sexually or romantically attracted to both females and males. It is expressed by his behavior through the game. His sexual experience on the subject is irrelevant for this tag.
One of the heroines is sexually or romantically attracted to both females and males. It is expressed by her behavior through the game. Her sexual experience on the subject is irrelevant for this tag.
The protagonist is sexually or romantically attracted to both females and males. It is expressed by his/her behavior through the game. His/Her sexual experience on the subject is irrelevant for this tag.
link
This visual novel is set in the same universe as Sailor Moon, or features characters from the franchise.
denied:
not a "bad ending" but more of there version of there "good ending " of a herione. they are somewhat sad but heartwarming (ex. last moments together before they seperate etc.)
The graphics of this visual novel are in black and white.
A visual novel with this tag is a black comedy, or it incorporates dark humour.
This story has Blackmailing.
The visual novel bleeps certain words.
The player is presented with a number of choices where it is completely unpredictable which route/heroine each choice ends up with.
One or more of the heroes is completely or legally blind temporarily or permanently.
One or more of the heroines is blind, that is, she is unable to see.
The protagonist (or alternatively, POV character) is afflicted by optical, neural, or neurological sightlessness.
These games have sprites that blink.
Hero has blonde hair.
Bloodplay is a sexual activity in which a participant is deliberately cut so as to release blood.
These games contain sexual scenes between a blood-related aunt and nephew.
These games contain sexual scenes between blood-related brothers.
One of this games heroes is protagonist's full sibling.
These games contain sexual scenes between a blood-related brother and sister.
These games contain sexual scenes between two (or more) blood-related cousins.
These games contain sexual scenes between a blood-related father and daughter.
One of this games heroes is protagonist's biological father.
These games contain sexual scenes between a blood-related father and son.
These games contain sexual scenes between a blood-related grandmother and grandson.
This eroge contains incestual eroscenes with characters that are blood-related.
These games contain sexual scenes between a blood-related mother and daughter.
These games contain sexual scenes between a blood-related mother and son.
These games contain sexual scenes between blood-related sisters.
These games contain sexual scenes between a blood-related uncle and niece.
This game features bloody scenes. The violent act or accident resulted in the spilling of blood is not required to be shown or described before, but considerable amount of blood showing on screen is.
This act of group sex is restricted to one person giving oral sex to several men, commonly referred to as a gangsuck, blowbang or lineup.
This VN contains at least one scene involving a sexual practice called "Blowbang" (i.e. group oral sex) where the performer sticks two or more penises in his mouth at the same time.
This game features sexual scenes where a character performs a "blowjob duck face" expression during a blowjob.
The game contains scenes that features blowjob.
This game features a heroine with a blue skin tone.
Titles with this tag have a primary gameplay style that is like a board game, or contains moments where a board game gameplay is implemented.
The game or many of its scenes are set in a bed-and-breakfast style place, smaller and more intimate than a hotel.
Some part of the game takes place in a boarding school, a school in which the students live there some or all of the time.
There are scenes during this VN that involve the use of body fluid tubes.
This game contains sexual scenes involving body food.
A hero of this game is a bodyguard.
A heroine of this game is a bodyguard.
The protagonist of this game is a bodyguard.
The player can set characters' amount of body hair.
This game contains scenes with body horror.
The game contains at least one scene that features a bodyjob.
The NV includes some elements of body modification : natural or unnatural
Actually this tag was refused earlier : sorry for insisting : some vn have a futanari transformation using magic, breast expansion using machines or medecine, vagina enlargement ...etc : most are within the dark themed vn. i give example for vns : miss leet in prison and some of other lilith works...
A significant part of this visual novel is set on or near a body of water.
This game features characters who have piercings, or they get new ones during the process of story.
Olfactophilia is a paraphilia for, or sexual arousal by, smells and odors emanating from the body. The most common odors to arouse sexual desire are those that come from the armpit, the anus, and the feet.
A body swap is a storytelling device seen in a variety of fiction, most often in television shows and movies, in which two people (or beings) exchange minds and end up in each other's bodies. Alternatively, their minds may stay where they are as their bodies adjust. The two people usually keep their voices in cartoons too, for purposes of knowing who is who.
A form of sexual domination (part of BDSM), often associated with sexual humiliation or abuse.
One of the heroines in this game plays the role of a boke.
The protagonist in this game plays the role of a boke.
One or more of the heroines in this game uses the "boku" Japanese pronoun to address herself.
This game features scenes of sexual bondage.
This game contains at least one sexual scene involving the use of bondage weights.
One or more characters in the story has a penis on a permanent state of erection. This is to be meant as a trait outside of sex scenes, on otherwise normal parts of the story. Reasons may vary, it could either be caused by means of a curse or drug, medical conditions (priapism), character design, tribal ornaments, or just to denote that the character is a horny hentai pervert that is always excited.
The sexual scenes in this game are separated as bonus content and has nothing to do with the main stroyline / gameplay mode of the VN.
These games have optional side stories that you can visit or ignore. They don't effect the main story nor ever mentioned on it.
The game contains at least one scene that features titty fucking.
At least one female at this vn performs boobjob and blowjob on a male at same time.
This VN has at least one scene where a character has her boobs pressed against fence, net or bars.
This character has her boobs pressed on glass during a sexual intercourse scene.
(At least) one of the heroines is the humanoid avatar of a Book of Power.
One or more heroes in this game is a bookworm.
One or more heroines in this game is a bookworm.
The protagonist in this game is a bookworm.
A visual novel where the player is able to romance at least one hero and at least one heroine.
The protagonist is a bounty hunter.
This game features boxing.
This game contains romance between boys.
This game focuses on boy/boy relationships, with a male protagonist and only male heroes to pursue.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where the heroines are shown without wearing a bra under their clothes. A bra, short for brassiere, is a form-fitting undergarment designed to support or cover the wearer's breasts.
This is the anti-thesis of Linear Plot. This story, at some point, will divide into multiple sub-stories.
The characters in the visual novel are participating in a brass band], a musical ensemble generally consisting entirely of brass instruments, most often with a percussion section.
This story features events or characters that break the illusion of reality of the game's setting. (referred as the fourth wall)
Story has at least one sudden, dramatic, or important discovery development that changed everybody's lives or solves a problem...
Parting in a relationship
This game features a heroine that gets her breast size increased in a very short period of time. This can be the result of a realistic medical procedure like breast implants, or of fantasy origin like some super drugs or magic.
This game contains erotic scenes featuring characters getting pregnant in their breasts.
This VN contains at least one scene involving sexual activities practiced while one of the characters has is breast squeezed with a sexual device called "breast press".
This game contains scenes involving breast smothering.
stepping on person's breast
Games featuring this tag involve characters, usually females, being used or captured for breeding purposes, usually by monsters, tentacles and non-humanoids.
This game is actually an NVL but sometimes its narration switches to the ADV side. These scenes are often enough to take a notice but still they don't make one third of the game.
The game is mostly linear, but has a few branches depending on your choices, which are mostly short and don't affect the actual ending at all.
This game is actually an ADV but sometimes its narration switches to the NVL side. These scenes are often enough to take a notice but still they don't make one third of the game.
This tag covers games that are mostly in a different perspective, but have some scenes in third-person perspective. These scenes are frequent enough to take a notice, but still they don't make up more than one third of the game.
Broadcasting club and the activities related to it takes an important role in this story.
One of the game's support characters is a brocon, a person who is always passionate about his/her brother and would do anything for him.
These games contain sexual scenes between two (or more) brothers. They may or may not be blood-related.
These games contain romance between two brothers.
These games contain sexual scenes between a brother and his sister. They may or may not be blood-related.
These games contain romance between a brother and sister.
This game has a brother or a brother-like-character as a support character.
Buddhist mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
This game has built-in walkthrough/flowchart, which can be accessed through in-game menus.
This game features one or more scenes featuring bukakke.
The story of this visual novel involves bullying.
One or more heroes in this visual novel is a bunny-boy.
This VN has some of it's characters doing bunny [url=]cosplay[/url] wearing a bunny costume or dress.
This VN has some of it's characters doing bunny girl cosplay wearing a bunny dress or bunny/rabbit cosplay wearing a bunny costume. Bunny girl cosplay are far more common in Japan than normal bunny/rabbit cosplay.
This type of a heroine usually wears formal clothing, acts serious and is knowledgeable in business management. She usually is the best person to be consulted about any issues regarding money and law.
One of the game's heroes is a butler or other household servant.
One of the game's heroines is a butler.
The protagonist of this game is a butler.
One of the visual novel's support characters is a butler.
This game has butterflies taking an important role in the story as a theme or character(s). Or it has butterflies all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
The buttjob is a sexual act where the penis is thrust several times between a woman's buttocks.
One of the heroines in this game is buxom
An Visual Novels that we're officially canelleced by their companies or doujin circle.
The game with this tag features cannibalism in some form.
The protagonist of this story is, or becomes, the captain/commanding officer of a ship/spaceship/submarine.
The player can capture and recruit other playable non-faction characters to his faction using actual gameplay mechanics.
The player can capture and recruit other playable non-faction units to his faction. If the player can capture unique characters with actual storyline behind them, then use g2344.
In some game series, a saved game from one game in the series can be used to unlock content or start in a different situation in later games. This game supports this loading of data from previous titles.
This visual novel has a lot of scenes set in a casino.
A visual novel with this tag features at least one "casting couch" scene. There are sex scenes featuring a trade-off of sexual favours in return for a promotion, a new job, a character to not lose their current job, etc.
Game has many scenes set in a castle.
Game contains scenes of castration. This can be either story-related or for fetish reasons.
This VN has some of it's characters doing cat cosplay wearing a cat costume or dress.
One or more of the heroines is a cat-girl.
Use this tag for a game that has a catgirl which is not a heroine or protag.
This game has one or multiple cats taking an important role in the story. Or it has cats all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
One of the heroes is a personification/embodiment of a cosmic object (star, planet, etc.).
One of the heroines is a personification/embodiment of a cosmic object (star, planet, etc.).
Celtic mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
This graphics contains that some non-sexual scene (mainly genitalia) are censored. Notable censorship for non sexual scene include obsuricng faces, adversiment, copyright and others.
When the vagaina and/or penis has been pixelated or censored in some other fashion, and is not visible or recognizable for what it is.
This visual novel contains censored text, where all or part of a word is replaced with meaningless symbols (e.g., * or ●) or otherwise intentionally hidden. Commonly used to hide profanity or references to copyrighted materials.
This visual novel is set in Central America.
Most visual novels have a hero that has more screen-time than others, while some might even have their entire story built around a specific hero. This tag is there to help find these plot-significant heroes.
Most visual novels have a heroine that has more screen-time than others, while some might even have their entire story built around a specific heroine. This tag is there to help find these plot-significant heroines.
Some CG had an error drawing such as.
In this game the player can change characters' costumes. Usually this ability becomes available in later parts of the game or even in the second playthrough.
It is possible to change the font for the displayed text in the game settings.
Protagonist's personality can totally change depending on the route.
While most games stick to the perspective of a single lead character, some use more then one lead and some switch to the other characters' point of view from time to time.
One or more of the game's characters have the ability to communicate with or conjure the spirits of the dead. This may take the form of a seance, or the spirit may possess the medium's body.
The player can design multiple aspects of what the protagonist looks like in order to create a personalised avatar. This usually includes skin, eye, and hair color, as well as hair style. Less commonly, may include body shape, species, and more exotic elements like wings or tails.
These tags represent all kinds of details about a game's characters that stand out.
This game contains at least seven characters whose characteristics are based on the Seven Deadly Sins; one for each individual per sin.
These are the tags about skin colors.
A specific character (that doesn't have a route) have their on outcome, sometimes this endings can be bonus endings, or even bad endings.
This tag is used for games that mostly focus on character interaction, but not necessarily an overarching plot.
The protagonist of this visual novel is generally regarded in story as good looking.
In this visual novel you can save only at certain points. For example, only before and/or after an important event, a battle, only at certain locations, etc.
A hero characterized by a cheerful and upbeat nature.
A heroine in this story is a cheerleader.
These games features many scenes with cherry blossoms, aka. sakura.
This game features several scenes where Chicken Sandwiches play part of.
Chikan (痴漢, チカン, or ちかん) is the Japanese term used to refer to frotteurism, or men who commit such acts (the term for women who commit such acts is chijo, 痴女).
One or more heroes of the game bearing this tag is a frotteur.
One or more heroines of the game bearing this tag is a frotteur.
The protagonist is a frotteur.
This game has dramatic events related to child abuse.
One of this game's heroes is a shota in body and age.
These games have heroines that are younger than the usual (student) protagonists of such games.
One or the support characters is a childhood friend of the protagonist or other characters'.
Two characters in this game, usually the protagonist and a heroine made a promise to each other in their childhood.
This type of hero shows childish violent behavior through the story. He hits the protagonist and others whenever he feels frustrated, not caring if they are to blame for anything.
This type of heroine shows childishly violent behaviour throughout the story. She hits the protagonist and others whenever she feels frustrated not caring if they had anything to blame for.
This type of protagonist shows childishly violent behavior throughout the story. He/she hits others whenever he/she feels frustrated, not caring if they are to blame for anything.
These games have protagonists that are younger than the usual (student) protagonists of such games.
This visual novel has at least one ending where the protagonist has at least one child. Different from a Pregnancy Ending in that a child character must make an actual appearance, though an ending with both is possible.
One or more of this game's support characters is a(are) child(ren).
One or more heroes of a visual novel with this tag is from China.
At least one of the heroines is from China.
The protagonist of this game is Chinese, by citizenship and/or ethnicity.
One or more times in this visual novel the reader will make a choice from the perspective of a character that is not the protagonist.
Meta-tag to house choice related tags.
Game contains choices that offer 3 options to select from (rather than commonplace 2-option choices).
Game contains choices that offer 4 or more options to select from (as opposed to more commonplace 2- or 3-option choices). There is no upper limit for this tag.
The game system marks previously chosen choices in a different colour for easier recognition.
The games story has the Christian Church taking an active role in it.
Christian mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
A hero in this game is overweight.
One of the heroines in this game is overweight.
A protagonist that is noticeably overweight.
This visual novel has a considerable amount of scenes set in a church.
This visual novel features a sex scenes that takes place in a church.
A heroine in this game is subject of chuunibyou syndrome.
Protagonist of this game is subject of chuunibyou syndrome.
Chuuni is a genre where the absurd is normal and where concepts we would laugh off in real life are pursued with a seriousness that would seem absurd to the uninitiated.
The story contains characters or is based upon the French fairy tale  Cinderella.
This game incorporates some aspects of construction and management simulation games.
Classical music is art music produced or rooted in the traditions of Western culture, including both liturgical (religious) and secular music. This tag should be used when a visual novel contains classical compositions (pieces composed between 1000-1910).
One or more of the heroine is a classic Tsundere (as they were defined before the anime "mainstream" assimilated it).
This character is a class president.
This character is a class president.
This character is a class president.
A visual novel with this tag features clicker game gameplay.
This game either ends in a cliffhanger type ending or has routes that contain cliffhanger endings. Cliffhanger endings are the result of an ending of dramatic high note or revelation right at the end of the game. This is usually done to set up for the following game in a series or continuation of the story on a different entertainment medium.
The visual novel features at least one scene, in which at least one character has a big clitoris or is subject to clitoris growth due to clitoral enlargement methods or clitormegaly disease during the course of the VN.
This visual novel has some scenes set in a clock tower, or a clock tower is frequently mentioned during the story.
A hero of this game is a clone.
The protagonist of the VN is a clone.
This story features cloning.
In this game the player is given the option to manually enlarge event CG's and change their frame in order to take a closer look at the image and/or view more details. This may be somewhat similar to PC's image viewing program's or camera's zoom/close-up function.
Contains lesbian sexual scenes where some women are clothed, but the other ones are nude (or at least wearing a lot less clothing). Can apply to BSDM scenes, as well as ordinary sex.
Contains sexual scenes wherein the women are clothed, but the men are nude (or at least wearing a lot less clothing than the women). Can apply to BSDM scenes, as well as ordinary sex.
Contains gay sexual scenes where some men are clothed, but the other ones are nude (or at least wearing a lot less clothing). Can apply to BSDM scenes, as well as ordinary sex.
The characters of this story suffer occasional clothing damage. Their clothing gets shredded in the story, be it either from the story or from gameplay mechanics.
This visual novel features an option or a downloadable patch which filters out the character's clothing either showing their sprites in their underwear or leaving them naked. There is no other change to the story or gameplay.
In these games, during most of the sexual scenes, the player is allowed a choice to let the participants to keep their clothing on or to have them get naked. This means that there are two variations to every CG for these scenes to collect and service to both types of tastes.
A game with this tag features clowns.
One or more heroes in this game is/are a coach.
One or more heroines in this game is/are a coach.
This story features multiple scenes involving cock and ball torture (CBT) devices or sexual devices.
This game features one or more scenes featuring cock and ball torture (CBT).
This game uses a specific text color for the names of each character when they are talking.
This game uses a specific text color for each character when they are talking.
This story features the uses of colposcopy camera for sexual purpose.
In these game, bows (and similar projectile weapons, like crossbows and even slings, but not guns, arquebuses or similar) are used to actually harm and/or kill someone - if you just shoot at rice paddings, it doesn't belong here.
In this game friends of the protagonist are capable of handling themselves in fight.
A combat sport or fighting sport is a competitive contact sport where two combatants fight against each other to gain enough points or a condition to declare a single winner by means of using certain rules of direct engagement. These engagements rules and conditions are significantly different from the rules in simulated contact or combat meant for technical based challenges, practice, or demonstration in martial arts, typically with the aim of simulating parts of real hand to hand combat through kata and self-defense training.
This game features combat scenes involving the use of an arquebus.
If SMGs, assault rifles and machine guns are the solution to the problem, then the game deserves this tag.
Knives, swords, Naginata... if battles in the game are resolved with such implements, it should be tagged with this (or one of the more specific children).
Combat in this game involves blunt weapons, like staves or clubs.
Vampires, werewolves or humans shapechanging their hands to claws to fight
Combat with clubs and similar unrefined, possibly improvised weaponry.
These games have battles that are resolved by using (personal) firearms - whether pistols, flintlocks or modern assault rifles. Normally crew-served weapons also count as personal weapons if used by a single person (so if someone is dual wielding BARs... go ahead)
This visual novel features firearms shooting beams and/or lasers instead of traditional projectiles.
This visual novel features combat in which the participant characters/mechas/spaceships/etc. shoot lasers and beams at each other.
Long sticks with a blade at the point, usually used to pierce the enemy.
Blackmail that is almost unintentional. The character is usually joking/not serious about black mailing person but other side consents to it right away anyways.
Sex scenes in this game are written with the intention of making the reader laugh, as opposed to titillation.
Comedy is an important element of these games.
Most or all of the rape in this game are done in a comical way. Situations leading to them and the events after them are designed in a way that these events do not carry any drama and trauma that an actual rape does.
A hero whose personality tends toward being comical, silly, or amusing as opposed to serious or dramatic.
Comiket, or a similar event (with parody name), takes an important role in the story.
The story has parts narrating the transition of the characters from adolescence to adulthood.
In the aim of completing the True End of a route or a story, the protagonist(s) of this visual novel inevitably die(s) at least once.
A hero in this game is an executive.
Tag used to describe a visual novel that has been fully translated to English.
This visual novel has some method in which players can check how much of the game they have completed.
The story is complex and may even confuse the reader about what is happening
This character is a composer, someone who uses a musical notation to write them.
The player can choose whether or not condoms are used in sex scenes.
This story features the use of condoms.
The game takes place inside a building, landform or dimension from which the characters can't get out.
The story features characters confined in a simulated reality, involuntarily or voluntarily.
In this instance of chikan, the act of frotteurism is consented by the one receiving it.
Erotic humiliation is the consensual use of psychological humiliation for the erotic excitement or sexual arousal of the person being humiliated and demeaned or of the person humiliating, or of some spectator, and may be part of BDSM and other sexual roleplay or accompanied by the sexual stimulation of one or both partners in the activity.
The game includes scenes with consensual group sex
This game features consensual group sex of one female and several males.
This game features one or more scenes of phone sex, in which characters engage in explicit sexual conversations/fantasies over the telephone.
This game contains Rape that is Consensual.
This game features consensual sex involving a amorphous/gelatinous monster.
This visual novel features consensual sex involving tentacles.
This game features consensual sex scenes involving non-human, standard animal creatures.
This game features consensual sexual encounters with non-humanoid creatures such as insects, worms, jellyfish, mollusca (ex. snails, octopuses & clams), crustaceans (ex. crabs & lobsters), and echinoderms (ex. starfish & sea-urchins).
This game features consensual sex scenes involving non-human, non-animal fictional creatures.
This story includes a conspiracy.
Beings that are not born under normal circumstances, not even in the fantasy settings go under this tag. They may be made purposefully or may came into being by an accident. The point is, they are made, not born.
Contains animated scenes.
This game features elements and themes of contemporary fantasy.
mods and side stories can be downloaded and added into the game.
This visual novel gives the reader the option to continue the game without having to load a save file\start over after getting a Game Over.
Game contains characters with the power to control physical elements such as fire, wind, water, earth, lighting, etc.
link
These games have at least one coodere hero.
These games have at least one coodere heroine.
One of the heroes in this game is a cook.
One of the games heroines is a cook.
One of the support characters in this game is a cook.
Coprophagia or coprophagy is the consumption of feces.
A corporation plays an important part in the story.
A game with this tag has some method of informing players that correct choices have been made.
Games involving this tag have characters who undergo some kind of physical change, corruption, or transformation, due to magic, curse, parasites, tentacle or monster sex/rape, etc. but not involve complete personality changes necessarily.
One of the themes in this game is corruption of its characters. This refers to characters disposition changing from a good, socially accepted one to a more evil, darker one.
The games bearing this tag are set in a low population zone.
The story involves an on-screen trial with which the characters are heavily involved. Expect lots of hyperbole-filled arguments, cross-examination of witnesses, and (if you're really lucky) just maybe a cry or two of "Objection!"
These games contain sexual scenes between two (or more) cousins. They may or may not be blood-related.
These games contain romance between cousins.
One or more of the support characters is a cousin of the protagonist.
This VN has some of it's characters doing cow cosplay wearing a cow costume or dress.
Cowgirl is the name of a group of sex positions in which the man lies on his back or sits, the woman straddles him and they face each other, and the vagina or anus of the receiving partner is aligned with the phallus of the inserting partner to achieve penetration.
One of the heroes works at the same place as the protagonist, whether occasionally or permanently.
One of the heroines works at the same place as the protagonist, whether occasionally or permanently.
One of the support characters works at the same place as the protagonist, whether occasionally or permanently.
You can create objects in the game by combining two or several components.
A Crime Family plays an important part in the story.
This is a crime story. Or at least have some law and order, crime life etc. themes taking an important role in it.
A heroine that has trouble with or is unable to walk.
Use it when the hero of the game had lost a limb or two, or similar.
One or more of the heroes in a game with this tag engages in cross-dressing, be it for personal or professional reasons.
Some characters in this game are cross-dressing.
This story features a crossover.
Scenes involving crotch rope walk take place during the course of this story.
During the course of this game's story, one or more of the heroines takes the role of the crush of the protagonist or one of the other lead male characters whom feelings they not are aware or keep it hidden.
Creatures of a slave's husband. And having sex with another, with the full consent of both parties.
A visual novel with this tag involves a cult in its story.
This category involves the full or partial submerging of characters in a semen filled container such as a pool or bathtub. This may be due to a bukkake.
Games with this tag contain at least one sex scene where one or more characters cum on foods/drinks.
Indicate a person ejaculating, usually onto a person or object.
Heroine is a cupid, god of love. She may have a bow and arrows, which allows her to seed a love between people
The sport of Curling plays a major role in this VN.
This story has some sort of curse playing an important role in it.
At least one of the heroines in the VN is curvy : link : Having shapes and curves at good proportions and sizes
The game allows the player to set relationships between protagonist and/or other characters. It can come in the form of selecting among the predefined relationships or simply writing them in. In the latter event, some games are able to recognize certain inputs and act on them.
This game allows you to customize your characters, vehicles and similar. Any detailed customizations beyond the basic picking up (and equipping) items an equipment detail of the usual RPG's can be considered a customization.
This game features a hero who acts cutesy.
This Visual Novel have cutsenes on it.
Cyberpunk is a science fiction genre noted for its focus on "high tech and low life". The name is a portmanteau of cybernetics and punk and was originally coined by Bruce Bethke as the title of his short story "Cyberpunk", published in 1983. It features advanced science, such as information technology and cybernetics, coupled with a degree of breakdown or radical change in the social order.
This visual novel has at least one hero that is a cyborg - that is, at least parts of their body are artificial but is usually controlled by a human brain.
The protagonist of this visual novel is a cyborg - that is, at least parts of their body are artificial but is usually controlled by a human brain.
The "damsel in distress" or "persecuted maiden" is a classic theme in world literature, art, film and video games. She is usually a beautiful young woman placed in a dire predicament by a villain or monster and who requires a hero to achieve her rescue.
One or more heroes in this game are dancers.
One or more heroines in this game are dancers.
A visual novel with this tag contains at least one hero who is dandere.
This game features elements and themes of dark fantasy.
This game features a side character with a darker skin tone.
This game features a hero with a darker skin tone.
This game features a heroine with a darker skin tone.
This game features a protagonist with a darker skin tone.
Dark to Light Relationship is to be understood figuratively.
---
A dating sim is a type of simulation with romance focus.
One of the stories characters is the daughter of the protagonist. This tag is for pure fatherly relations, no ill intentions included.
Used for games where daydreams are an integral part of the story. Do not use this tag for just any game that has daydreams inside it.
The game's art is rendered in Daz3D software.
This visual novel contains a death game as a major element. In a death game, one or more "players" are forced against their will to play a game under punishment of death if they fail.
These games feature characters that are from the Death Note series.
A hero in this game can die in one of the routes or endings.
A heroine in this game can die in one of the routes or endings.
The tag is used when a character that is close to the protagonist but is not a heroine perishes
The protagonist of the game can die in one of the routes or endings.
This game features debt as its story element.
This game has at least one scene of decapitation.
This game features deep-throating.
This VN has scenes of a character having their first sexual experience with an object / a sex toy.
This game has one or more scenes of a heroine losing virginity to a character different from the protagonist.
This game has one or more scenes of losing one's virginity or defloration. Usually includes blood and long winded discussions about it.
A game with this tag has some supernatural divinities, gods, or goddess' on its cast. They may be originating from one of the popular mythologies or may be based on games original story. Or may be they are from one of the accepted religions around the world, if the game is brave enough.
The protagonist of this visual novel is a god.
One of the heroes works at the same place as the protagonist, whether occasionally or permanently.
One or more heroes in this game is a delinquent.
One or more heroines in this game is a delinquent.
Protagonist of this game is a delinquent.
A visual novel with this tag has one or more heroes that are delusional.
A visual novel with this tag has a protagonist (or multiple) that are delusional.
Plot points in this game involve delusions.
I'm bad with words. Anyway plot points in the games involve delusions and stuff. Etc parent tag would be nice too as I can't think of what this goes under.
This visual novel contains themes of  dementia], a mental illness that interferes with daily functioning such as memory loss and confusion.
At least one heroine is a (western type) demon.
Protagonist of this game is (or later becomes) a demon.
There are demons in this game.
Denpa games are a subgenre of horror eroge, popularised by the 1996 Leaf game 'Shizuku' which also lent the genre its name. The typical model is a horror story where the catalyst for the events that occur are based on familiar people acting in unfamiliar, yet seemingly orchestrated ways. Stories where the world seems to have gone mad; and the protagonist is not necessarily an exception. The name comes from the idea that electromagnetic waves (denpa) is causing people to act strangely (although it is rarely anything that mundane).
A mood of depression can be felt trough all this game. (Feelings of deep sadness, helplessness, and hopelessness.)
One of the heroes is deredere - he is utterly lovestruck with the protagonist essentially from the moment he meets him or her.
One of the heroines is deredere - she is utterly lovestruck with the protagonist essentially from the moment she meets him.
This game features some scenes with descriptions of violence.
This visual novel has a lot of scenes set in a desert.
This meta-tag is designed to house tags about how a games system works. Such as how it saves progress, how many players it allows and similar.
These games revolve around a group of characters working to design something or such an act takes a huge part in the story.
The main cast is thrown into a desperate situation. Each time it looks like they have finally found a way out of it, the tables turn again and the future will look even more desperate than it did before.
The concept of destiny (fate) plays an important role in these games.
The story of this game can be enjoyed to the end without seeing any sexual content. Sexual content is only accessible through special extra menu and separated from the story. Player can decide himself whether he wants to avoid it or choose the time when he wants to read it without being a distraction to the story.
This game features its one or more characters working like detectives, gathering clues and investigating some mysteries in a serious professional/semi-professional way.
Detention is an punishment room and is the common for other countries.
This heroine is a Devil.
The vast majority, if not all, of the text in this game is dialogue.
Features scenes where a character wears a diaper. This is usually in place for fetishistic reasons.
Sex between a dickgirl and a man with the man on the receiving end.
In a game with multiple protagonists, a different heroine or heroines are available as potential romantic partners for each protagonist. The protagonists have no overlapping love interests.
This visual novel allows players to set the difficulty level of the gameplay sections.
This story features multiple scenes involving dildos.
This game deals with characters traveling between different dimensions, whether magically or scientifically.
This game has one or multiple dinosaurs taking an important role in the story. Or it has dinosaurs all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
A character uses strong language, curses, or taunts during sex; differs from Sexual Roleplay in that it usually describes something happening rather than an imaginary situation.
One or more of the heroines has a disability. (For example he might be blind, deaf, mute or crippled.)
The protagonist has one or more disabilities - he might be blind, deaf, mute or missing an extremity.
The mystery revolves around the disappearance of characters.
A heroine is the leader of the discipline committee.
The protagonist is the leader of the discipline committee.
A hero is a member of the discipline committee.
The protagonist is a member of the discipline committee.
The game features masturbation done in discreet from third-person audience(s) unaware of the act. e.g. caressing one's own genitals under the table, masturbate where one is invisible, etc.
The game features sexual activity while having a phone conversation, with the person on the other end of the call being unaware of the act.
The game features sexual activity done in discreet from third-person audience(s) unaware of the act. e.g. caressing partner's genitals under the table, sex where one of the participant is invisible, etc.
Visual novels with this tag have stories that deal with discrimination.
This game features sex with characters that have body parts detached from the rest of the main body, be it by surgical procedure, or by means of magic (ex. a Dullahan).
This meta-tag is to cover the tags concerning the various displays games use.
The characters in this VN have distinct noses, in contrast to the usual small dots above the mouth.
All divine entities goes here, angels, demons, gods etc.
All heroes belonging to divinity goes here.
This game features heroines belonging to the divinity.
This game's protagonist belongs to the divinity.
The game with this tag has at least one heroine who's divorced from a past marriage. Not to be confused with Widow heroine though.
The protagonist has divorced from a previous marriage.
One or more of the heroes are dog-boys.
This VN has some of it's characters doing dog cosplay wearing a dog costume or dress.
One or more of the heroines is a dog-girl.
Doggy style or doggie style is sexual intercourse usually involving a receiving partner crouching on all fours while a penetrative partner sexually penetrates the vagina or the anus from behind or performs other sex acts.
This game has one or multiple dogs taking an important role in the story. Or it has dogs all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
This game contains scenes or themes of domestic violence. This could be physical violence by one character towards a spouse or family member, or other forms of abusive behavior.
Game has many scenes set in a living space used as a permanent or semi-permanent residence for an individual, family, household or several families.
This game features one or more dominatrix heroines.
-----
This type of a protagonist is totally immune to romantic and sexual advances. He/she can't read the atmosphere at all. This protagonist may be a genius but still can't understand the feelings of anyone towards him/her until a clear confession is made. Even then he/she needs to ask for a confirmation about it and think for a while to understand what that means. The people who are in love with this protagonist can do everything to make him/her understand, from occasional kisses to even having sex under poor excuses (like transfering mana etc) but they have no chance to be understood, none at all...
This visual novel contains settings, items and/or characters from [From Doraemon].
One of the heroines is the manager of a dormitory.
The protagonist of this game is the manager of a dormitory.
Is a hero which at first seems like a Deredere, but, actually they are hiding a darker side of their personality and\or past, that doesn't necessarily mean they are bad, but they have a lot of phisicological problems they hide.
Is a heroine which at first seems like a Deredere, but, actually they are hiding a darker side of their personality and\or past, that doesn't necessarily mean they are bad, but they have a lot of phisicological problems they hide.
A character has two ahoges as a characteristic.
This story features scenes involving double dildos.
This game contains sexual scenes involving double penetration.
Denied:
Visual novels made by amateurs; either individual developers or doujin circles
An Ending that ends things in a way that varies from sad to tragic.
These games contain actual dragons (as in, the monster/creature type, not as titles, coins or anything similar).
At least one heroine is a dragon. This includes heroines who are dragons but take human form (via magic or other means).
The protagonist of this visual novel is a dragon.
This visual novel features characters from the Dragon Quest franchise.
School drama club and the activities related to it takes an important role in this story.
There is a love triangle in the game, and it is a source of conflict and pain for the characters.
This visual novel has Dramatic mode.
Dreams have an important role in this game.
This game features dress-up as a focus of the gameplay, meaning that there is/will be a wide array of clothes to choose from and you can build up your wardrobe.
This story features multiple scenes involving a drill dildo.
One or more heroines in this game operates a land vehicle.
The protagonist of this story quit school before graduation. Sometimes also used as dropping out of society.
This story has elements of drug use.
Games with this tag contain at least one scene in which alcohol plays a significant part during a sex scene, or in inducing a sex scene. Usually, both participants are intoxicated, but this tag can also apply to situations where only one participant is, such as alcohol used as a date rape method.
Feature that allows to either display text in two languages at the screen simultaneously (as in Nekopara) or to switch between languages with a shortcut (as in Higurashi: When They Cry).
Games that has people using two daggers at the same time.
Games that have people using two swords at the same time.
A character consents to sex under circumstances that make it ambiguous whether they had other options.
This game features scenes of duct tape bondage.
A tag for when the roles are reversed from the standard Damsel in Distress trope.
Most of the fighting in this game is in the form of one on one fights. They can be either of, in the form of a competition, or the classic anime style where everyone else just stops doing anything and watches the fight while discussing and throwing comments.
This game has some amounts of RPG sections that are basically exploring maze-like dungeons and fighting enemies encountered.
One of the heroines on this game has a terminal illness. Either from the start of the game or for the most part in general. If she survives the game or not is up to the game but her sickness is an important factor for her as a character.
Protagonist of this game has a terminal illness. Either from the start of the game or for the most part in general.
Characters have sex while one (or both) of them is dying.
These games are set in a dystopia.
This visual novel features at least one scene in which a character cleans out another character's ears.
This games story branches out at early in the game.
The sexual content in this game appears at the very beginning of the game (or at least on the first couple of hours of a thirty hour game for example).
---
The game takes place on our own planet. Most continents, countries and cities featured are portrayed as they are or have been on Earth. Stories set in ficticious cities based on real cities in recognised countries take place on Earth.
At least one character is suffering from some kind of eating disorder (e.g. anorexia, bulimia, etc.) or eating disorders are otherwise important part of the story.
A visual novel in the genre Ecchi (link). In this visual novel there are erotic scenes, but unlike hentai they do not show sexual relations directly, demonstrating, depending on the age of the target audience, various erotic scenes with a hint of such relations, depending on the degree of frankness.
A game with this tag is set during the Edo Era of Japan.
"Effractions digitales" is when a VN is focusing in a horror story taking place in France.
Egyptian mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
The game uses choices in which the reader could chose where to ejaculate.
The eroge with this tag has a nifty feature which indicates to the reader in advance (10 lines before cumming for example), about when the male participant will reach orgasm.
This title contains one or more erotic scenes where one or both of the participants are elderly, in or beyond their sixties. Don't use it if the participants are only middle-aged or younger.
Spirits born from and tightly tied to an element, usually affecting its state, can usually also control it.
Some part of the game takes place in an elementary school.
At least one of the heroes is an elementary school student.
At least one of the heroines is an elementary school student.
The protagonist of this game is an elementary school student.
This game contains scenes taking place inside of an elevator.
One of the heroines is an elf.
The protagonist is an elf.
Elopement is often used to refer to a marriage conducted in sudden and secretive fashion, usually involving a hurried flight away from one's place of residence together with one's beloved with the intention of getting married. It is colloquially used for any marriage performed in haste, with a limited public engagement period or without a public engagement period. Some couples elope because they wish to avoid objections from parents, or religious obligations.
There are elves in this story.
A female gets her body accidentally exposed for her mortification and embarrassment. This is usually accompanied by heavy blushing and attempts to cover the most important pieces of her anatomy, or alternately hiding behind objects. Use when the predominant feeling is akin to having a [link]naked dream[/url].
When one leaves another, at least one of the involving parties express strong emotions which can be triggered by many reasons... (Like sending a loved one to war, funerals, how close ones feel when they see someone "they were together with forever" off...)
One of the heroine of this game displays no emotion, animation, or expression whenever she talks or does anything else.
The protagonist of this game displays no emotion, animation, or expression whenever he or she talks or does anything else.
The protagonist of this visual novel is an emperor or empress.
This is similar to a vacuum bed with but broader. The characters could be encased in biological, alien, or other unknown materials or cocooned for various purposes.
These games allow the player to view a list of all possible endings, and may indicate on this list which ones have been achieved.
This metatag is to house other tags about the mechanics of games ending.
This game's scene replay mode contains route ending scenes. These scenes should be replayable entirely and may or may not have sexual content.
There's multiple variations of the same outcome, with small differences.
This game features sexual scenes involving the use of enemas.
This type of heroine is always active, running around, engaging in sportive activities or training all the time for some reason.
Somehow, energy can be transferred or even created by having sex in this game. Includes Mana, Lifeforce, etc.
Meta-tag to house visual novel engines.
One or more heroes in this visual novel are engineers.
One or more heroines is an engineer.
---
These games feature themes concerning the issues of conservation and improvement of the environment.
In this story an epidemic or pandemic occurs.
The game have an in-game display to tell which chapter the reader is currently in, it may have an small overlay in one of the corners of the screen, or show it on the save file, though it is not obligatory, as long as it shows the current episode regularly.
This type of a story is told in a style that separates events and organizes them in an episodic structure. Each episode has it's own flow, build-up and climax.
A story that is primarily told in the form of letters, messages, or documents that the reader finds or receives rather than through dialogue or narration.
This game contains at least one scene where one or more female character in the game have their nipples hard caused by their sex partner (s) action (licking, teasing, etc.).
This visual novel contains extreme torture scenes involving, amputation. Those scenes should never be consensual or happen by accident to be considered torture.
This game features characters that use techniques of mind control to achieve sexual relationships with others, and other situations that somehow manage to combine mind control with sex.
This VN contains at least one sexual scene involving a BDSM practice of mummification or total enclosure fetishism.
This visual novel features scenes featuring erotic spanking.
This game features room escape gameplay.
The story of the game features espionage. Espionage involves a government or individual obtaining information considered secret or confidential without the permission of the holder of the information.
One or more heroines in this game are European.
Most or all of the story of this game takes place in Europe.
Tags related to games Event CGs go here.
The game has one more heroines portrayed as distinctly evil, for example committing acts of rape or murder.
This game has an extra evil route that is mostly about rape, murder and all kinds of things that most people would not want to see.
Story has scenes where people exceed their own limitations and show them strugglng with the said limit.
A character is being executed in this story.
This game has scenes featuring exhibitionism.
An exhibitionist is one who finds pleasure or excitement in being exposed to others.
The protagonist is forced to deal with major uncertainties about the nature of reality or the accuracy of his perceptions.
This game features exorcism.
In this visual novel, humans or animals have been experimented on, with or without their consent.
---
This visual novel features extraterrestial life.
This game has a hero who is extremely small. An example would be a fairy or pixie.
This game has a heroine who is extremely small. An example would be a fairy or pixie.
One (or more) of the game's heroines is extremely lucky, extremely unlucky, or possibly both at the same time.
Two character (face/eye fully drawn) eye to eye contact during a sex scene.
This game features elements and themes from the fable genre.
In all eroge, always exist a blowjob scene, and the follow scene is the vaginal penetration, and most of the time the protagonist cum in the face of the heroine, however, in the next sex scene, the vaginal penetration scene, the face of the heroine is all clear, without any semen in the face. Is very rare, almost 1% of all eroge, happens top have the vaginal penetration scene with the heroine still with her face dirtied with semen during all the time in the sex scene.
A form of bonding which a person, usually a girl, sits on a guy’s or another girl’s face and makes them smell their farts. This can be done for sexual pleasure on either side.
This game has at least one heroine with a hairstyle covering one (or both) of her eyes.
An image of the protagonist doesn't appear in the entire game.
Facesitting is a sexual practice in which one partner sits on or over the other's face, typically to allow or the oral stimulation of genitals and/or anus.
The player can choose whether characters have facial hair or not.
A fairy is a type of mythical being or legendary creature in European folklore, a form of spirit, often described as metaphysical, supernatural or preternatural.
One or more heroes of this VN is a fairy. Not the Tolkien-esque elf kind, but the bright winged sprite kind.
One or more heroines is a fairy. Not the Tolkien-esque elf kind, but bright winged spirit kind.
A fairy character in this game has a supporting role.
This game features elements and themes from fairy tales.
A game with fake options is when a player at some point, is presented with multiple options, but if you choose a non correct option, they will make you choose again, without being a game over. (ex. v119, v739)
This game features a story of a main character or a group falsely accused of a crime. They must spend a portion of the story proving their innocence.
Plot contains a feud between two or more families.
The comedy in this visual novel focuses around family life: the relationship between family members, the hijinks of living together, etc.
The game is a Fandisc story for the original game.
The story is set in a world already created by some other author. Majority of those works are free dojin novels.
This VN has some of it's characters doing fantasy, sci-fi or anime cosplay wearing a fantasy, sci-fi or anime costume or dress.
Protagonist of this story is a fantasy style ranger. Imagine the ones found in The Lord of the Rings inspired games and similar.
Ending includes epilogue that tell Epilogue for few years after
One of the heroes runs, works for and/or owns a farm
One of the heroines works on and/or owns a farm
A significant part of this visual novel is set in a farm, i.e. such as arable farm, vegetable farm, fruit farm, dairy, pig and poultry farm.
This title features sexualized farting. For example a character might accidentally fart during anal foreplay or sex or intentionally fart in presence of someone for sexual excitement. Ideally the farting should be explicitly indicated rather than just implied by some roundabout expression.
This game includes some mini-games that require player to act fast and show some skill, even at small amounts, to win.
At least one of the heroines is a fathercon, a person who is always passionate and OVERLY attached to her father (or father-like figure) and she would do anything for him.
The protagonist of this game is a fathercon, a person who is always passionate and OVERLY attached to their father (or father-like figure) and she would do anything for him.
These games contain romance between a father and daughter.
These games contain sexual scenes between a father and his son. They may or may not be blood-related.
This game has a father or a father-type-character as a support character, that that acts fatherly, giving advices and such, adding a family aspect to the game.
This game features characters who are mostly in a state of fear of death. This may have justifiable reasons based on the story or may just be related to the mental illness called necrophobia.
Characters in this visual novel derive pleasure from eating lots of food to gain weight, or from feeding others to cause them to gain weight.
Felching is a sexual practice involving the act of sucking semen out of the vagina or anus of one's partner after sex
The visual novel features at least one sex-scene involving female domination.
This game features one or more scenes of female ejaculation.
Supporting characters include one or more female friends of the protagonist.
One or more scenes where the act of Guro is being preformed on a female character.
This game lets you play with a female protagonist for a short time.
{Can't really think of a good description for this since it is so self-evident, feel free to put whatever you think fits.}
The protagonist or one of the heroes in this story starts as a male but has his lifestyle modified into that of a trap/crossdresser by his own choice or by sexual training, either consensual or not. The key point of this tag is not about appearance but it is about taking on tasks, behaviours and roles that are overtly feminine, and adopt female mannerisms and postures.
A festival holds a great deal of importance in this games story.
This game has few choices. Sometimes as few as 1.
This game has less than 25 soundtracks, including opening, credit music and such.
This visual novel features at least one sex scene that involves three females having sex with each other at the same time.
This visual novel features at least one sex scene that involves two females and one male having sex with each other at the same time.
This visual novel contains creatures and/or beings not found in the real world.
This game is set in a fictional Japanese town sometime in the future.
This visual novel takes place in a fictional nation similar to and/or based on Japan.
A visual novel with this tag is set in or contains a fictional location in modern day Earth. This could be anywhere as small as a village, or as large as a country.
This visual novel is set in a fictional town within contemporary Europe.
This story is set in a fictional coutryside area of contemporary Japan.
This story is set on a fictional island near the shores of contemporary Japan.
This visual novel is set in a fictional town within contemporary Japan.
The game takes place on another world. The game's environment could be similar to that of our own with a few significant changes, but it could also be radically different.
This game is either a full fighting game or has has a fighting game as a minigame.
At least one of the heroes of these games is a warrior. He may be a professional soldier, a self-trained martial artist, a priest with a powerful charms and a sword or maybe a fantasy being. But he can definitely handle himself in a fight.
At least one of the heroines of these games is a warrior. She may be a professional soldier, a self-trained martial artist, a miko with a powerful charms and a sword or maybe a fantasy being. But she can definitely handle herself in a fight.
At least one of the heroines is a western-style princess, but unlike the vanilla version this one leads her battles from the frontlines.
The protagonist of these games is a warrior. He may be a professional soldier, a self-trained martial artist, a cleric with a powerful charms and a sword or maybe a fantasy being. But he can definitely handle himself in a fight.
A heroine in this game is a figure skater; or an ice skater.
Film noir is a cinematic term used primarily to describe stylish Hollywood crime dramas, particularly such that emphasize cynical attitudes and sexual motivations. Hollywood's classical film noir period is generally regarded as extending from the early 1940s to the late 1950s. Many of the prototypical stories and much of the attitude of classic noir derive from the hardboiled school of crime fiction that emerged in the United States during the Great Depression.
This trait is a child tag of g1380. It applies if the person who is the subject of infidelity finds out about it. He/she may find out from walking in on his partner, or from other clues that lead to it.
Fingering is the manual (genital) manipulation of the clitoris, vulva, vagina, or anus for the purpose of sexual arousal and sexual stimulation. It may constitute the entire sexual encounter or it may be part of mutual masturbation, foreplay or other sexual activities. To "finger oneself" is to masturbate in this manner. It is analogous to a handjob, the manual stimulation of the penis. These activities provide sexual pleasure, whether or not used as non-penetrative or penetrative intercourse.
Finnish mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
This game features scenes of fire torture.
Game contains a scene or date with fireworks.
The game has Sexual Scenes that are draw from the first person point of view.
One of the games heroines is a fisherman.
This game has one or multiple fishes taking an important role in the story. Or it has fishes all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
Fisting is a sexual activity that involves inserting a hand into the vagina or rectum. Once insertion is complete, the fingers either naturally clench into a fist or remain straight. In more vigorous forms of fisting, such as "punching," a fully clenched fist may be inserted and withdrawn slowly. Fisting may be performed with or without a partner, and is enjoyed by people of all sexual orientations.
Sex scenes are actually well integrated into the story and make sense in context.
This game has some flashback scenes.
Some of Visual Novel are made in Flash Animation.
An interjected scene that takes the narrative forward in time from the current point of the story. Flashforwards are often used to represent events expected, projected, or imagined to occur in the future. They may also reveal significant parts of the story that has not yet occurred, but soon will in greater detail.
The shading of this VN use well-defined flat tints in opposition to gradation.
This VN has CG or tachie (sprites) whose base shading uses flat tints exclusively, in opposition to gradation.
One or more of the heroes in a game with this tag is flirtatious. This hero constantly flirts, be it actually suggestive or just playful banter. This is a trait typical of the "womaniser" archetype, but doesn't necessarily mean that the hero is promiscuous.
This game has a lot of scenes that are all about eating and discussing about food. The more detailed these discussions the better.
This VN contains at least one sexual scene involving a practice called food gokkun wich consist in consuming large quantities of semen at once by eating or drinking cum covered food.
Games with this tag contain at least one sex scene where foods/drinks play a significant role in the experience.
One of the supporting characters is a moron. Usually this happens to be the best friend of the protagonist or at least as a close friend.
One of the parent-figure characters is an idiot. It can be either the father or the mother of the protagonist, heroine, hero, or side characters.
For not so smart protagonists.
One of the villain of the game is an idiot. Usually serves as a comedy factor.
This game features one or more sexual scenes featuring foot insertion into an orifice.
The game contains at least one scene that involves a character performing a double footjob.
This game contains romance of characters whose society or family considers their relationship taboo.
This game contains sections during which the user cannot control the rate of the text moving to the next line. The game is put into an auto-mode state which does not follow the auto-mode speed options set in the config. You cannot pause the game during these sections to check the backlog.
A character cross-dresses not by choice, but because he is forced to as a form of erotic humiliation.
Для игр, в которых есть принудительные и неизбежные H-сцены, как то: на главной ветке, или на ветке одного из персонажей, но с другим персонажем.
One or more heroes is from a different country than the VN is set upon. For example if the VN was set in Japan, he'd be a gaijin.
The game focuses on learning or teaching a foreign language.
a loose part of the penis made from skin and muscle tissue that covers the penis glans
This VN contains at least one sexual scene involving foreskin play.
A significant part of this visual novel is set in a forest.
One or perhaps more characters are forgotten by others in this story either through hypnosis, mind control, magic, or scientific means.
The VN is set in a school that used to only admit boys, but has become coeducated very recently. This usually means that there are a lot more boys and only a very few girls attending it.
The game is set in a former all-girls school, where the boy-girl ratio is very low, and protagonist might be the only boy in all-girls class.
A heroine of this game is a fortune-teller.
The game features four-player mahjong games.
This visual novel is set in France.
This game allows you to move your angle or point of vision. You can pan, sometimes zoom or tilt, to achieve an viewing point you like.
-----
These games feature characters that are from the  Free! anime series.
The full VN is free to download, not just the demo.
One or more heroines in a VN with this tag originally hails from France and/or is of French descent.
During h-scenes this game features French kiss between partners. Do not mix it with normal kissing and do not use this tag if you are not sure about type of kiss. It differs from g1955 since there can be some other activity except kisses as well.
This game contains one or more endings that revolve around platonic friendship with one of the other characters.
Friendship is an important theme in this story. It may be about a group of friends that have always been together, and how their relations change as they grow up. Or it may be a story about how the friendship between two people stands against all odds.
These games have a route focusing on friendship with a specific character instead of the usual romance route.
This game features one or more scenes of frot.
Fruit is an important part of this game, or there are many scenes involving fruits.
This game features one of more characters wearing a chastity belt.
Bascally if a visual novel has this tag, it means there is a full english translation available for it, whether it be a offical release (Eg Mangagamer, Jast etc) or a fan translation of the game that is complete and in English.
These visual novels feature characters that are from the Fullmetal Alchemist series.
This visual novel features BDSM scenes of some sort, anything from some light bondage to full blown sexual slavery. The one common factor is that all of it is fully consensual. No mind control, no super drugs, no magic, no blackmail, no raping into submission and so on, just two (or more) kinky people having some kinky fun.
Games with furigana or the option to turn furigana on or off.
This game contains Furry characters.
One or more of the game's heroines has male as well as female genitalia. Generally, though not necessarily, paired with otherwise female characteristics.
Sex between a futanari and a woman (who isn't futanari) with the woman on the receiving end.
This visual novel contains sexual scenes between futanaris.
Sex between a futanari and a man with the man on the receiving end.
One of the support characters has male as well as female genitalia. Generally, though not necessarily, paired with otherwise female characteristics.
Sex between a futanari and a younger girl with the girl on the receiving end.
This story is set in an imaginary future China.
This visual novel is set on a fictional rendition of future Earth.
The protagonist or a character in this game, through scientific techniques or their own ability, can foresee future events. This leads them to either try to stop/change the outcome of said events, or to seek their fulfillment.
This story is set in an imaginary future Japan.
This game is set in an imaginary world whose timeframe resembles a futuristic version of our world.
The game is set in, or at least has considerable time of its story taking place in a future Tokyo.
Large parts of this game take place in a future United States of America.
This VN features gameplay with gacha gameplay sequences.
The protagonist is from a different country than Japan, a gaijin.
Games with female protagonists with male love interests that are not tecnically considered Otome Games as traditional Otome Games are aimed primarily at a female audience but are not a Galge in the traditional sense of the word either as traditional Galges have male protagonists and female love interests.
This visual novel was created as part of a game jam, such as Global Game Jam or Ludum Dare.
This visual novel was created using either the Game Maker or Game Maker Studio video game engine.
These games have Game Over type failure endings.
These tags are for specific gameplay elements a game has. They are not to define the type of the game.
One or more heroes of this game are avid players of video games, gamers.
One of the heroines is an avid player of video games, a gamer.
Protagonist is an avid player of video games, a gamer.
This meta-tag is for gathering all tags related to the save game methods games utilize.
A significant part of this game is set on a  game show.
This game strongly revolves around the theme of video games.
A gang plays an important part in the story.
This game features one or more scenes of gang rape.
A hero character in the game is a gangster.
A heroine character in the game is a gangster or otherwise related to them.
A protagonist in this game is a gangster.
This game features one or more heroines that have an appearance similar to the ganguro fashion.
When after sex the vagina and/or anus are visibly stretched. Often caused by large insertions or fisting.
School gardening club and the activities related to it takes an important role in this story. Expect lots of talking about flowers in this game.
Garters are articles of clothing: narrow bands of fabric fastened about the leg, used to keep up stockings, and sometimes socks.
This game contains any sort of 'status gauge' as part of the visual novel gameplay.
This game involves transgender, transvestite characters, characters who actively transgresses, or "bends," expected gender roles, and/or situations about them as an important part of the story.
This tag is intended to be used in games featuring characters who have sexual intercourse scenes while not in his or her original sex.
Tihs game features themes or scenes where a character receives sex reassignment surgery.
Highly advanced research into genetics, DNR and/or clonning is displayed in the game.
Djinns, or Jinn, are supernatural creatures from Middle-East lore.
This visual novel features at least one character with a genital piercing or genital jewellery.
One or more of the heroines in a game with this tag is considered to be a genius.
Protagonist of this game is a genius.
One of the supporting characters is a natural genius that knows much about anything and everything.
This visual novel contains references to or scenes of murder targeted at a specific ethnic or ideological group.
Protagonist is genre savvy, meaning he compares his situation to that of a movie/book/video game/visual novel hero and draws conclusions from that.
This game suddenly switches into a wildly different genre later on in the story. For example, it might start as a school comedy then later turns into a space opera or mecha or apocalyptic sci fi, etc., you get the idea.
The protagonist of this story is gentle, and usually treats other people with care, politeness, and taking their feelings into account. He or she values more the well being of his or her partner than his or her own, and won't make any advances unless it's consensual.
At least one hero is of German descent.
The protagonist in this game is a German.
A ghost is the soul or spirit of a dead person or animal that can appear, in visible form or other manifestation, to the living.
A hero in this game is a ghost.
A heroine in this game is a ghost.
Protagonist of this game is a ghost.
Spiders are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom.
One girl, usually the main heroine from the story, is suddenly introduced to the story as having fell from the sky (or a tree or roof) just at a few feets of distance from the protagonist. This act of divine intervention represents that fate wants them to be together.
This game contains romance between girls.
This game focuses on girl/girl relationships, with a female protagonist and only female heroines to pursue.
The player can choose whether or not a character wears glasses.
This game features sexual scenes involving "glory hole" sex.
At least one of the heroines is a goddess.
One of the heroes in this visual novel is a god.
This game includes golems.
Before the credits roll the Heroine(s) at the end of the game is not in a bad position(for example: forced sex slave, mind broken, death, and etc).
This game has a option to not show/hide parts of Gore CGs, sprites and scenarios. They can change the content for an equivalent non-gore content or simply not show the gore content. Gameplay and story is not affected.
This game has scenes of excessive violence and shows lots of blood as a result of this violence.
This visual novel follows the formula of a traditional Gothic novel.
Government plays an important part in this story.
These games contain sexual scenes between a grandfather and his granddaughter. They may or may not be blood-related.
This game has a grandfather or a grandfather-type-character as a support character, who acts grandfatherly, giving advices and such, adding a family aspect to the game.
These games contain sexual scenes between a grandmother and her grandson. They may or may not be blood-related.
This game has a grandmother or a grandmother-type support character, acting grandmotherly and all, to add a family aspect to the game.
This visual novel features at least one sexual scene involving vaginal or anal grapeshot.
All tags related to the games graphical presentation methods, sprites, animations etc. goes here.
The graphic style of the visual novel changes noticeably one or more times during gameplay. This might represent a character's personality change, an altered state of consciousness, a change of location, a flashback, etc.
Gratuitous Language is language that appears to not make sense when used in a foreign culture. Gratuitous Language mostly is Gratuitous English in Japanese culture. The translated English text appears as it would when Google Translator badly translates a foreign sentence into English. Commonly, foreign cultures tend to borrow language like English and incorporate it into their media but then misuse the words horribly. Such an example is incorrect English grammar in Japanese games such as "What had you done last night?"
Greek mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
This game contains erotic grotesque scenes featuring extreme body modification, bizarre mutations and/or extremely disfigured characters. Only use for non-gory scenes, for bloody amputations and such use Guro instead.
This game contains erotic scenes featuring grotesque nipples modification.
The game contains at least one scene that features a group boobjob (by at least 4 characters).
The game contains at least one scene that features a group footjob (by at least 4 characters).
This game has a group of friends, that consider their group as an entity (with a name, hideout etc.), that usually includes the protagonist as well.
This game includes group sex scenes.
This game includes group sex scenes including the named combination.
The game contains at least one scene when a male clone/duplicate himself to have sex with a female.
This game includes group sex scenes including the named combination.
The game contains at least one scene when a female clone/duplicate herself to have sex with a man or the protagonist.
This game includes group sex scenes with multiple females and no males.
This game includes group sex scenes with multiple males and no females.
This game contains a grouped sex of only two people, with one of the party having identical copies of themselves, or both parties at the same time. Cloning can be done be done through scientific cloning or by magical means (ex: Ninja technique).
The heroine works as a guide in a museum, safari, park, expedition or travel tour. Guides are people who leads travelers or tourists through unknown or unfamiliar locations.
This visual novel is set in the same universe as any of the Gundam series or features characters from the franchise.
This visual novel revolves around the use of or featuring guns. It does not have to contain shooting elements (link), but there have to be characters who wield guns.
A visual novel with this tag features characters from the Ace Attorney series, and/or is set in its universe.
This game features one or more Gyaru or Kuro-Gyaru heroines.
At least one heroine in this story practices some form of gymnastics, such as aerobics, fitness, artistic gymnastics, rhythmic gymnastics, synchronized swimming, and acrobatic gymnastics. Female practitioners of these artistic sports usually wear leggings or maillots to allow maximum freedom of movement.
This VN contains at least one scene where a character is involved in sexual activities while being restrained to a gynecologist chair, medical chair or experiment chair.
This protagonist is afraid of women to a level where even touching or being in their presence can cause a fight or flight reaction.
These games have at least one hero that is a hacker.
At least one the heroines of this visual novel is a hacker.
The protagonist of this visual novel is a hacker.
This game involves characters hacking into security networks, corporations, or even just the computers of other hackers. Expect ICE, Icebreakers, and in the worst cases "All our DNS are down! They're breaking through the subnets!"
The game contains scenes that feature hair job.
This game has at least one sexual scene containing hair pulling.
The player is given the option to change the characters' hairstyle at some point, with one or more alternative hairstyles. Haircuts do not count unless it is optional.
This type of heroine is the child of a demon and a human or something similar.
Protagonist of the game is the child of a demon and a human or something similar.
Protagonist of the game is the child of a dragon and a human or something similar.
This game features one or more heroes that are born from the union of a human and a member of different species.
This game features one or more heroines that are born from the union of a human and a member of different species.
The protagonist of this game is born from the union of a human and a member of different species.
One of the heroines is half-Japanese.
Protagonist is half-Japanese.
One or more of the heroes in this VN is a half-orphan.
One or more of the heroines in this VN is a half-orphan.
A VN with this tag contains at least one protagonist whom is a half-orphan.
The story is based at least in part around the holiday of Halloween.
Hanafuda are playing cards of Japanese origin that are used to play a number of games. The name literally translates as "flower cards". The name also refers to games played with those cards. These cards are illustrated with plants, animals and various sceneries. The deck consist of a 48 cards divided into four sets of 12, which represents every month of the year.
The game contains at least one scene that features handjob.
This VN contains at least one sexual scene involving a "hands free orgasm".
A game with this tag contains at least one hero who is haraguro.
A game with this tag contains at least one heroine who is haraguro.
The hentai scenes in these games are very extreme, and may contain fetishes.
These games have Hard Science Fiction elements - less "these work by the powers of <techword>", more realistic elements.
All the heroines/heroes are attracted to the protagonist at the same time (either during the common route or a characters route) but doesn't require for it to lead to a harem ending.
This game has a harem ending.
The harem of this game only contains heroes/heroines fitting a particular theme or fetish.
These visual novels are set in the Harry Potter universe and/or feature characters from it.
One of the people engaging in the sexual act hates the other, and does not hide it. Angry eyes and verbal abuse is common.
Unlike your usual love story, people hate each other and as the story progresses the hatred grows...
A haunted house/mansion/other building is the main setting or one of the important settings in this game.
When the whole head of someone is inserted into someone else's body or their own, for extreme sex.
When the whole head of someone is inserted into someone else's body or their own, for extreme sex.
One or more heroines of this game is a healer - whether she is a cleric using magic, adept at using herbs or a real doctor.
Protagonist of this game is a healer - whether he is a cleric using magic, adept at using herbs or a real doctor.
Problems regarding the health of its characters play an important role in this story.
High-heeled footwear (often abbreviated as high heels or simply heels) is footwear that raises the heel of the wearer's foot significantly higher than the toe.
This visual novel is set in (or at least based upon) the Heian Period.
This game contains romance between characters with a significant height difference than what is average for their genders.
A visual novel with this tag is set during the Heisei Era of Japan.
One or more of the heroes in a game with this tag is based on a fictional character from a different book, anime, cartoon, comic, manga, movie, play, visual novel, etc.
One of more of the heroes in a game with this tag is based on a character appearing in mythological accounts or stories. Mythological figures are often gods, heroes or humans with supernatural powers.
At least one of the heroes (not to be confused with the protagonist) in this novel are based on real historical persons.
These are the tags concerning heroes', or his parents' origins.
One or more heroes from this visual novel is from a different world or dimension than the world in which the visual novel takes place. Examples include:
One or more of the heroines in a game with this tag is based on a fictional character from a different book, anime, cartoon, comic, manga, movie, play, visual novel, etc.
One of more of the heroines in a game with this tag is based on a character appearing in mythological accounts or stories. Mythological figures are often goddesses, heroines or humans with supernatural powers.
At least one of this game's heroines portraits a person from the real world.
These are the tags concerning heroines', or her parents' origins.
This game has at least one scene in which a heroine engages in sex with someone other than the protagonist.
A heroine in this game undergoes an estrous cycle, like many female animals that reach sexual maturity.
At least one of the heroines of this visual novel is already committed to a romantic relationship as the story starts, or does so at the very early stages of the story. Do not use this tag for relationship with the protagonist (use g880 in such case), only for relationships with other characters.
Put that tag when one or more of main heroines (which have own routes) has suffered in some kind of dramatic event/accident in course of their route or common route and received permanent injury or long treatment/falled into coma. In other words -- something that have dramatic impact on the story and protagonist. It can be one of the endings -- but only if it is considered major ending (do not mix it with bad endings, which can be avoidable). Of course that tag in most cases should be MAJOR SPOILER. And it meant only for those who can't bear such events and want to avoid them at any cost.
Heroines are the female members of a game's cast with their own routes and/or endings.
These are the tags defining a heroines physical appearance.
This is a meta tag to gather all tags regarding the body type, proportions and skin colors of heroines.
This meta-tag is to gather heroine traits related to their personalities.
These are the heroine Archetypes by their clothing and accessories.
A father of one of the heroes/heroines, is a hero in his own right.
A grandmother of one of the heroines, is a heroine in her own right.
This is a meta tag to gather all tags regarding the hair (generally the hairstyle) of heroines.
At least two heroines in this game are sisters to each other.
These are the heroine Archetypes by their relation to the protagonist.
Heroine Archetypes defined by what they do (for a living) or what roles they play in the society.
Heroine-defining character traits.
This game has at least one heroine with braided hair.
The heroine is still recovering from a failed relationship or a rejection.
A game tagged with this tag has at least one heroine, who for the majority of the game possesses an ahoge. Ahoge refers to a single, often large, lock of hair sticking out from the top of the head.
One or more female characters in this game have hair around their anus.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see heroines who wears armor. It can be western or eastern type of armor or even some kind of futuristic armor.
One or more female characters in this game have cospicuos hair under their armpits.
This game contains a heroine archetype wearing a sundress as their main attire. Often, the sundresses are colored white and sometimes accompanied wearing a sun hat.
This heroine has a baby complex.
One or more of the heroine's has an ass that sticks out greatly.
One or more heroines of this VN have big breasts.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see girl/girls who wears bodystocking. It is an article of lingerie, similar to a leotard or a catsuit. Key difference here is that it is usually made from see-through materials. Despite being quite erotic piece of garment there are vn's where heroines wears it as their everyday main clothes.
This game has at least an heroine which wears her hair in bun hairstyle.
These games have a heroine who wears a cap.
A heroine in this visual novel has one or more children, whether biological or adopted. The children may or may not be characters in the game.
One or multiple heroines in the game wears a Cheongsam.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see characters wearing crotchless or open cup clothing or lingerie, commonly worn during sex scenes to be more sexy or lewd.
This type of heroine starts as a regular human but later on gets demon blood mixed with her own, ultimately granting her superhuman qualities and powers.
This game features at least one scene where one or more heroines appear with only adhesive bandage(s) to conceal their private body part(s).
A game tagged with this tag has at least one heroine, who for the majority of the game possesses an expressive ahoge. Unlike normal ahoge, expressive ahoge expresses the emotion or mood of the person by changing shape.
This game has at least one heroine with a hairstyle covering one (or both) of her eyes for a considerable part of the story.
This game features a heroine with freckles.
This game has at least one heroine who is commonly shown wearing a Garter Belt in scenes featuring her.
One or more heroines of this VN have gigantic breasts.
One or more of the heroines wear glasses.
One or more heroines in this game are mostly dressed in gothic fashion.
This game features a heroine whose hair is rendered in a color gradient for stylistic purposes.
These games have a heroine who wears a hairband.
These games have a heroine who wears headgear.
For tags that can be used for a heroine that's not in best of her health.
One or more of the heroines has eyes of different colors.
One or more heroines of this VN have huge breasts.
Heroines featuring the distinctive 'intake' hairstyle, where the rising forelock (usually divided in the middle) makes the hair look like an hood scoop.
One or more female characters in this game have inverted nipples.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see heroines who wears jeans.
These VNs have one or more heroines who wear a kimono most of the time.
One of the heroines in this game has large eyebrows.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see characters wearing latex clothings (boots, lingerie, gloves, stockings, masks, etc...) commonly worn during BDSM practices (often by female dominatrix).
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see girl/girls who wears leotard (i.e. skin-tight one-piece garment that covers the torso but leaves the legs and arms free).
The game features one or more heroines wearing a monocle for the most part of the game.
One or or more of the heroines has multiple personalities - this might have psychological causes, or be a real second personality.
This visual novel features at least one heroine who wears old-style bloomers.
For heroines suffering from a mental disorder.
One or more female characters in this game have hair around their genitalia.
Stubble after shaving pubic area
At least one of the heroines have a hymen that naturally regenerates/reconstructs itself after being torn.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see girl/girls who wears shorts (do not mix them with jeans, pants or panties).
When there are heroines who are sisters to each other, and all of them can be in a romance relationship with the protagonist. This can be serious (drama between the two) or harem.
This game features at least one heroine with a slave tattoo (BDSM).
The sling swimsuit link is a one-piece swimsuit which is supported by fabric at the neck.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see girl/girls who wears socks (do not mix them with zettai ryouki).
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see girls with  sport bloomers.
One or more heroines has a second personality that is much more powerful than their normal one.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see girl/girls who wears swimsuits. Do not put it because of one beach event or other rare appearance. Put it only when such scenes are quite common (VN about swimming club etc.)
This game features heroine's body with tan lines.
This game features heroine with tattoo.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see girl/girls who wears tights, leggins or similar slinky thin pants (do not mix them with jeans, wide or common thick pants, or shorts).
One or more heroines of this VN wear Trousers instead of a Skirt.
This game features one or more heroines with wings.
A heroine in this game has wrinkles.
This game features one or more heroines with zettai ryouiki.
These games include a hero wearing a kimono or similar traditional Japanese clothing.
At least one of the heroes of this visual novel is already committed to a romantic relationship as the story starts, or does so at the very early stages of the story. Do not use this tag for relationship with the protagonist, only for relationships with other characters.
Heroes are the male members of a game's cast with their own routes and/or endings.
These are the hero Archetypes by their clothing and accessories.
These are the hero Archetypes by their relation to the protagonist.
Hero Archetypes defined by what they do (for a living) or what roles they play in the society.
This game has at least one hero with braided hair.
This game features one or more heroes with a fang.
A hero in this game is voiced by a woman. Do not use on trap heroines or reverse trap heroes as they are almost always voiced by women.
A game tagged with this tag has a hero who for the majority of the game possesses an ahoge. Ahoge refers to a single, often large, lock of hair sticking out from the top of the head.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see heroes who wears armor. It can be western or eastern type of armor or even some kind of futuristic armor.
One of the male characters has a scar from a previous battle or incident.
A hero in this game has a beauty mark.
These games have a hero who wears a cap.
A hero in this visual novel has one or more children, whether biological or adopted. The children may or may not be characters in the game.
This game has at least one hero with a hairstyle covering one (or both) of his eyes for a considerable part of the story.
This game features a hero who has an eyepatch. He doesn't necessarily have to be blind in that eye; the only requirement is that the character wears it enough to be associated with it.
This game features one or more heroes with facial hair.
One or more heroes in this game are mostly dressed in gothic fashion.
This game features a hero whose hair is rendered in a color gradient for stylistic purposes.
These games have a hero who wears a hat.
These games have a hero who wears headgear.
For tags that can be used for a hero that's not in best of his health.
Hero is wearing necklace, bracelets, earrings, rings, etc.
This hero's use of a Kansai dialect, most commonly Kyoto or Osaka dialect, makes him stand out. In keeping with Japanese stereotypes about people from this region, he will usually have a brash personality to match.
One of the heroes in this game has large eyebrows.One of the heroines in this game has large eyebrows.
Hero has long hair.
The game features one or more heroes wearing a monocle for the most part of the game.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see heroes whose top half of the body is naked.
Hero has a pierced ear or other body part.
For heroes suffering from a mental disorder.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see guys who wears swimsuits. Do not put it because of one beach event or other rare appearance. Put it only when such scenes are quite common (VN about swimming club etc.)
This visual novel features a hero or heroes with tattoo.
This game has considerable amount of scenes where one can see hero's underwear, excluding the sexual scenes.
This game features one or more heroes with wings.
A hero in this game has wrinkles.
The opposite of Proactive Protagonist.
Use this tag in games were the focus are non-heterossexual relationships (Bara, Yuri, Yaoi...), But Have heterossexual content. Ex. Katahane
hhh
One or more characters in this game suprize the players to have an route or exist at all. They are usually ether unlockable or disguised as a side character.
This visual novel features hidden object gameplay.
Although sexual scenes are present in the game, male or female genitalia are never shown, being either out of view or being obscured by objects or even body parts.
This story features scenes where a character uses or is forced/tricked into using a vibrator in secret during every day activities, for example while at work, at school, eating dinner, etc.
---
These games have a ton of bad endings and almost every choice can lead you to them.
These games have a lot of fanservice outside of actual H-scenes, similar to an ecchi TV anime. This tag can be used in all ages games or 18+ games that have lots of fanservice in addition to H-scenes. Don't use on nukige as they always have lots of fanservice.
This game uses a lot of sprites and special effects to enhance the storytelling, making the game look like it is animated during some scenes.
This game has a lot of rape in it. Not just a handful but tons of it...beware...
This game features elements and themes of high fantasy.
Games with this tag use softwares such as E-mote to enhance their sprites with vectorial animation. Sprites don't need to be continuously animated but they have a very large palette of expressions and gestures that is used very often. They have internal movements that normal sprites can't do.
A High School AU is an alternate universe story in which characters from an existing work are reimagined in a high school setting.
Some part of the game takes place in a high school.
At least one of the heroes is an high school student.
At least one of the heroines is an high school student.
These VN's protagonist is a high school student.
This visual novel has significant amount of sex scenes: about half or more of the playtime is spent on explicit sexual content.
Games with this tag features a hero that was/is a hikikomori.
Games with this tag features a heroine that was/is a hikikomori.
Games with this tag features a protagonist that was/is a hikikomori.
When a Heroine have a "Princess complex" (Aka she wants people to treat her as loyalty and as a superior being) they are called Himedere (the female counterpart would be Oujidere), wheter they are from loyalty or not is not important, use this tag when a heroine have this type of personality.
At least one of the heroines is an Eastern-style princess and is the daughter of a regional lord or the king - being called hime by other characters is NOT enough to qualify a heroine for this tag.
The protagonist is an Eastern-style princess - being called hime by other characters is NOT enough to qualify a protagonist for this tag.
Bad endings in this game (occasionally also good endings) are followed by a short scene in which characters explain to the player where they went wrong and how they can get a better ending next time.
The game is set in a cottage, usually rented, somewhere in the countryside, often near a body of water or other nature spot.
This game features some characters return to a their home town, usually the protagonist. It may just be about that person's experiences or it may be about big events related to it, like the homecoming celebrations.
One or more heroines in this game are homeless.
A helpless female that doesn't have a place to stay is offered one by the protagonist by the start of the story. The progagonist taking care of the homeless female is a plot device and should not be confused with simply living under the same roof.
This protagonist excels at household chores, such as cleaning and cooking and also utilises these skills. Whether he/she learned these skills out of necessity or actually likes to take care of the household is irrelevant as long he/she has the necessary skills and he is actively using them to take care of the household.
One of the game's heroes is a murderer.
A homicide takes an important role in the story of this game.
Use for Hetero games only, this game features a homo route unlike the other hetero options...
The protagonist is a lesbian.
A hero in this visual novel identifies as homosexual; that is, he is romantically and/or sexually attracted to other men.
The protagonist is a homosexual male.
The protagonist is a homosexual male.
The protagonist is homosexual.
One of the supporting characters is a homosexual. And this takes some role in the story.
One or more of the heroines in this story are homunculus.
The protagonist of this story is a homunculus.
One or more of the support characters in this story are homunculus.
This visual novel uses Honey Select from Illusion to create its characters, backgrounds or scenes.
The game's characters/art is rendered using Honey Select engine.
Heroines featuring the distinctive '[url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hood_scoop"]hood scoop[/url]' hairstyle. Prime examples can be found in [url="http://vndb.org/v4"]Clannad[/url]'s Kyou as well as in the cast of [url="http://vndb.org/v92"]Muv Luv Alternative[/url].
This game features elements and themes related to the horror genre.
This game has one or multiple horses taking an important role in the story. Or it has horses all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
This visual novel has a lot of scenes set in a hospital.
This game features a hostage crisis.
A hero in this visual novel works at a host club.
A heroine in this visual novel works at a hostess club.
One or more of the heroes in a visual novel with this tag is hotblooded.
One or more of the heroines is hotblooded.
The protagonist is hotblooded.
One or more of supporting cast is hotblooded.
This story has many scenes set in a hotel.
These game includes at least one scene of vaginal, anal or oral penetration, where the inserted object(s) or body part(s) is/are significantly larger than the penetrated orifice, often impossibly stretching and bulging the stomach/throat.
Human branding or stigmatizing is the process in which a mark, usually a symbol or ornamental pattern, is burned into the skin of a living person, with the intention that the resulting scar makes it permanent. This is performed using a hot or very cold branding iron.
This visual novel contain sexual scene involving human beings transformed into human cattle.
This visual novel features a scene in which a human child is being born. Only use this if the childbirth actually happens, if the heroine has a child after a time-skip, this tag does not apply.
Human extinction is an disaster that causes human all over the world to perished and disappear. As a result, some races will be replaced by other species, mainlly antromorphic animals and others.
This game features elements of forniphilia, a form of BDSM where the dominant partner uses their submissive partner as piece of furniture, such as a chair or table.
One character in this novel masturbates by rubbing their body against the corner of a table, desk, chair, or other piece of furniture.
Contains one or more scenes where a woman has vaginal sex for the first time, but doesn't spew blood upon penetration and experiences lessened or no pain. Generally indicated by them saying it was their first time, or saying things like "So this is what sex feels like"
This game features characters who are suffering from a case of identity crisis.
At least one of the heroes is an idol.
One of the heroines is an idol.
The protagonist of this game is an idol.
This visual novel was made using the Ikura GDL engine.
This game contains a wedding scene or marriage ceremony which is illegal or whose legality is in question within the jurisdiction of where the wedding has taken place.
An illness has a major role in this story. Game spends much time discussing about it.
Wrong choices in this game may lead to an immediate bad ending thus depriving the player of any meaningful choice.
One of the heroes is immortal, doesn't age or can't be killed through normal means.
One of the heroines is immortal, doesn't age or can't be killed through normal means.
The protagonist is immortal, doesn't age or can't be killed through normal means.
At least one of the heroines is protagonist's Imouto
These games have at least one imouto-type-heroine. An imouto-type heroine is a heroine who is not a sibling or a step-sibling to the protagonist but acts and gets treated like a little sister anyway.
Tags listed under this meta tag defines how the sexual content in this game is implemented.
During some part of this game the protagonist is impotent.
This game contains scenes where a character becomes impregnated by characters different from the protagonist.
This visual novel offers you a choice whether to impregnate a character or not. This can be in the form of an Ejaculation Choice that has actual consequences, or in case of raising simulator hybrids, a choice that you can make from a menu.
Stories involving the impregnation of one of the characters. Usually found in the games about the fertilisation fetish.
This visual novel has a feature where the player can monitor the impregnation progression of a particular heroine.
A style or movement in painting originating in France in the 1860s, characterized by a concern with depicting the visual impression of the moment, especially in terms of the shifting effect of light and color.
A protagonist that acts on impulse rather than after careful forethought. A protagonist of this type will frequently take action based entirely on an instinctive grasp of the situation, rather than a rational assessment.
At least one of the heroes of this visual novel is the personification of an inanimate item, or even the item itself.
The heroine's parents are genetically closely related to each other.
The protagonist's parents were closely related to each other, genetically.
These games contain scenes of incest that lead to impregnation.
The story includes drama revolving around the fact that some of the characters are engaged in incest.
These games contain sex scenes that could be considered incestious. Whether the involved characters are actually blood-related matters not.
These games have romance that could be called incestual (whether the involved parties are blood-related or not is irrelevant).
Denied. These VNs have inconsistent art, either due to having multiple artists or using various public domain art and/or character generators. Characters will look like they came out of two different games sometimes two different genre of games, backgrounds will switch between photoreal and cartoon, event CGs will be higher or lower quality than the character art.
A game with this tag will include a breeding element (usually for strategic purposes) involving the raping or sex with girls for breeding units.
This game features incubi.
One or more of the heroes is an incubus, a demon in male form who, according to mythological and legendary traditions, lies upon sleepers, especially women, in order to engage in sexual activity with them.
Protagonist of this game is an incubus, a demon in male form who, according to mythological and legendary traditions, lies upon sleepers, especially women, in order to engage in sexual activity with them.
Protagonist of this game can't make a choice between the heroines. He is either unsure about which one he loves more or is afraid of hurting the feelings of the other.
Developers of this VN are either amateur or independent.
This visual novel is set in Indonesia.
A support character in this game is a baby.
A heroine's infertility is a plot point in this story.
The story of this game features infidelity.
Similar to its parent-tag with the exception that these powering-up situations occur multiple times in a single combat.
This game features scenes where a character's belly is inflated during sexual play. This could be due to the excessive amounts of foreign material (liquids, gasses, monster eggs etc.) introduced to the body or the insertion of over-sized objects (a huge penis, a mass of tentacles or slimes, etc.) through any orifice. It can be consensual or forced.
This game uses long-winded technical explanation that is given all at once to the reader.
A visual novel with this tag has an in-game mechanic that allow players to disable/enable sexual content before or as it appears.
This visual novel has a tutorial featuring in-game instructions on how to play, navigate, and possibly tips or hints.
This game contains sexual scenes characters who are in-laws.
A narrative work beginning in medias res opens in the midst of action. Often, exposition is bypassed and filled in gradually, either through dialogue, flashbacks or description of past events.
This game has one or multiple insects taking an important role in the story. Or it has insects all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
Stories involving the insemination of one of the characters by some kind of creature which is not a human or humanoid beeing.
Denied
Characters that play little to no role or make no difference without.... Often times they are given no sprites...
One ore more characters in the story suffer from insomnia.
Games with this tag contain a sex scene either immediately or almost immediately after the player starts a new game.
Aside of the usual Fast forward option, the game with that tag also employs an instantaneous "scene jump" or "scene skip" feature, primarily for the already read text.
One of the heroines of this visual novel is playing on a musical instrument.
This game features zombies that have retained intelligence.
In this visual novel, there are words and\or phrases that are "wrong" intentionaly. This type of misspeling is normally found in comedy scenes.
Games where you interact with the world, either through text input , point-and-click or "look/examine/talk to"-style interfaces.
This game is an interactive movie
This game features gameplay elements of 'touching'.
A game with this tag deals with romance in which the characters that romantically involved (or developing a romantic involvement) with one another are of different social classes.
The game contains at least one scene that features intercrural sex.
For a large part of the story, the protagonist (and his associates) travel from one dimension to another - whether they are trying to find a way home, or have some loftier ideal.
An Interdimensional Organization, devoted to the protection of certain ideals and/or orders, plays an important role in the game
During sex-scenes there are internal view of penis (or the penetrating object in case of sex-toys) in the partner's intestines, vagina, womb, throat, etc.
Games released by the publisher for free downloading on the Internet.
Visual novels with this tag have something to do with the internet as a major part of the story. For example, online games or online dating.
A game with this tag features at least one romantic relationship between characters of different races or species.
This game contains at least one interracial sexual scene.
During the course of this games story; many times when someone is about to say something important, like asking the right question at the right time or confesings something, a third party walks-in and interrupts that conversation. These kinds of situations usually considered comical...
This game has conspiracies, secret plots and all kinds of under the rugs deals going on.
One of the heroes of the game sports dog-like ears. They can be natural for non-human/demi-human characters or they can just be an accessory.
For games featuring heroines with doglike ears or anything that would remind it as their signature part or appearance, such as a hairband with dog ears or her hair being shaped exactly like one.
At least one of the heroes of this game is an inventor.
At least one of the heroines of this game is an inventor.
The protagonist of this game is an inventor.
This game is in virtual reality.
These games feature characters that can become invisible, either permanent or non-permanent, voluntarily or involuntarily.
---
Irish mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
This game has at least one scene involving character(s) being tortured using Iron maiden.
A significant part of this visual novel is set on a small(ish) island.
One or more heroes in this game are Italians.
One or more heroines in this game are Italians.
A Mafia plays an important part in the story.
Iyashikei (癒し系) is Japanese for "healing", a term used for anime and manga created with the specific purpose of having a healing or soothing effect on the audience. Works of this kind often involve alternative realities with little to no conflict, emphasizing nature and the little delights in life.
The protagonist of this game is a janitor.
This visual novel uses janken (commonly called rock-paper-scissors in English) as a gameplay element.
The Japanese idol setting plays an important theme in the game.
Traditional Japanese mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
The game features fantasy elements of a Japanese style, such as youkai and oni, rather than western style fantasy elements.
This game contains Japanese voice acting even though this game's original language is not Japanese. The presence or lack of non-Japanese voice acting bears no relevance to the application of the tag.
A non-Japanese heroine that is obsessed with Japan in general and/or Japanese culture in particular.
Some characters in this game are jealous when their beloved ones are flirting with other characters or becomes the subjects of flirt themselves, or for other reasons that might cause jealousy in the love relationships.
Some/all of the endings of this game are not meant to be taken seriously. Characters act out of character, the 4th wall is broken, or they are just silly in an otherwise serious or mostly serious game.
This is the "Bara" conteurpart of yuri.
One of the heroes of this visual novel is a journalist.
One of the games heroines is a journalist.
The games protagonist is a journalist.
These games are, for the most part, about a journey.
This game has jump scares.
This VN has a dedicated button for jumping directly ahead to future choice selections.
This VN has a button that allows players to advance to the next scene.
This VN has a dedicated button for jumping directly back to previous choice selections.
This VN has a button that allows players to jump to the previous scene.
This VN gives the player the ability to jump to the next portion of the story yet unread by the player.
Visual novels Jun Maeda has worked on. Includes both scenario and music work.
This visual novel belongs to the Kaiju genre. This genre contains giant monsters usually attacking major cities, other giant monsters, or the military.
When a hero have a "god complex" (Aka when they want people to treat them as a divine entity) they're called Kamidere, whether they're a god or not doesn't come into question.
When a heroine have a "god complex" (Aka when they want people to treat them as a divine entity) they're called Kamidere, whether they're a god or not doesn't come into question.
This game is one of those intersubjectively agreed upon as being among the very best the medium has to offer.
Someone disappears mysteriously because they have been taken away by the gods.
This game features a participation in the Kanamara Matsuri
This game has considerable number of Japanese-specific jokes generally referring to the design, etymology, radical composition etc. of kanji.
This visual novel is set in the same universe, or features characters from Kantai Collection.
These games feature characters that are from the Katekyo Hitman Reborn! series.
These games feature kemonomimi characters, who typically appear human except for added animal-like qualities (such as ears or tails).
This game has one or more kemonomimi characters that are appearing in a hero role.
This game has one or more kemonomimi characters that are appearing in a heroine role.
The protagonist of this game has kemonomimi.
This game has one or more kemonomimi characters that are appearing in support roles.
Kendo club and the activities related to it takes an important role in this story.
The game features kidnapping as a story element.
A kinetic novel is a VN that does not present the "player" with any choices at all; they simply read through a single unbranching story.
The protagonist of this visual novel is a king, be it by birth, coup, or happenstance.
Visual novels Kinoko Nasu has worked on.
This visual novel was made using the KiriKiri Visual Novel Engine.
These visual novels have at least one scene centered around, or entirely consisting of, kissing.
These visual novels have an ENTIRE scene revolving around kissing their partner.
At least one of the heroes is a kitsune - a fox that can take human shape.
At least one of the heroines is a kitsune - a fox that can take human shape.
These games contain at least one scene of kneepit sex. This is a form of non-penetrative sex where the penis is inserted in a person's kneepit.
Shorter blades used primarily for stabbing.
One of the main heroes of the game is a knight.
At least one heroine of these games is a knight.
The protagonist of this game is a knight.
In this game, there is a koakuma hero. This means that the hero is a little bit devilish and teasing, but in a cute way. Note that they are usually younger than the protagonist, but it's not required.
In this game, there is a koakuma heroine. This means that the heroine is a little bit devilish and teasing, but in a cute way. Note that they are usually younger than the protagonist, but it's not required.
This visual novel uses Koikatsu to create it's characters, backgrounds or scenes.
These games feature characters that are from the K-On! series.
A visual novel with this tag contains at least one Korean hero.
A visual novel with this tag contains at least one Korean heroine.
At least one heroine of these games is a Kunoichi, a female ninja.
The protagonist of this game is a kunoichi. A kunoichi is a female ninja.
These games feature characters from the Kuroko no Basuke series.
In this novel, there are situations when the protagonist is faced with an intricate system of possible actions or answers that are cycled. Way out of this labyrinth can be correct (and often, the only possible) sequence of the choices you make.
A character's breasts produce milk during the act of sex.
This Visual Novel has a type of branching system that works like a "Ladder".
The ladder structure is a semi-common structure in VNs, It is exemplified in the following quote:
This game has a heroine with a mellow personality; she rarely gets mad, sad, anxious, excited, etc.
One or more of this games heroines is a landlady.
One or more of this games heroes is a landlord.
These games have a large amount of characters.
This game contains final choices that determine the ending based on the choice selected within these decisions. These choices usually appear near the ending of the route/game.
This games story branches out at the late parts of the game.
The sexual content in this game appears at the very end of the game (or at least on the last couple of hours of a thirty hour game for example)
A heroine of this game is a Lawyer.
The protagonist of this game is a lawyer.
One of the heroes is lazy, he has absolutely no motivation to do anything, or do it with a half-hearted attitude.
One of the heroines is lazy, she has absolutely no motivation to do anything, or do it with a half-hearted attitude.
This type of hero is a leader. This hero has employees/subjects/soldiers to command. Games story may or may not include actually commanding them.
This type of heroine is a leader. This heroine has employees/subjects/soldiers to command. Games story may or may not include actually commanding them.
This type of protagonist is a leader. This protagonist has employees/subjects/soldiers to command. Games story may or may not include actually commanding them.
This game features scenes of leather bondage.
This game has a character who is a shota, but is an adult.
This visual novel contains at least one sexual scene involving a legjob.
The act of licking the leg of a person.
This VN contains at least one sexual scene involving a legwear footjob.
This visual novel started its life on the Lemma Soft Forums.
One of the heroines is sexually attracted to other females. It is expressed by her behavior through the game, her sexual experience on the subject is irrelevant for this tag.
These games feature sexual scenes between a loli and another female.
The games which contain the scenes with protagonist's female significant other being stolen by another female, should be given this tag.
The protagonist is a lesbian.
This tag is used on stories where one or more female characters sexually assault another female.
There are sex scenes involving two (or possibly more) females.
One of the supporting characters is a lesbian.
This game addresses themes of LGBTQ experiences and identity, such as characters questioning their sexuality or gender identity, coming out to friends and family, and dealing with prejudice.
At least one of the heroes of this visual novel is a librarian.
At least one heroine in this game is a librarian.
A significant part of this game is set in a library.
A game that spends considerable amount of its time on discussing the preciousness of life, or has its characters constantly worrying about their or their loved ones survival, or a game that has a lot of people dying and this situation's effecting the psychologies of characters can have this tag.
One or more of this game's heroines is a lifeguard.
One or more of this game's protagonists is a lifeguard.
The reader have a limited number of "lifes". These "Lifes" deplete when they fail to fufill certain conditions.
A game with a linear plot has a static main storyline; it is not possible to get into traditional, substantially different routes.
This visual novel features sexual scenes involving the use of linked or chained clamps.
This game features lip-sync, characters have mouth animations in synch with spoken lines.
This game is a literary adaptation, its story is based on an actual book.
This visual novel uses the Live2d animation technique.
This visual novel was made using the LiveMaker.
This game include at least one sexual scene where "living clothes" play a significant role.
One or more of the heroes in this VN is a living doll. Like in Nameless.
The protagonist is a Living doll. Like in Rozen Maiden.
One of the support characters is a living doll. Like in Rozen Maiden.
A loading screen is a picture shown by a computer program, often a video game, while the program is loading or initializing. It can also be used as a transition in between scenes.
These games tell you the name of the location the current scene takes place, usually by a display that pops up at start of the scene at a corner of the screen.
This visual novel allows readers to "lock-on" to another visual novel; generally to combine multiple games in a series to be played from a single location, a la Sonic 3 & Knuckles.
One of the heroes is sexually attracted to lolis, underage girls. This is expressed by his behavior through the game, his sexual experience on the subject is irrelevant for this tag.
One of the heroines is sexually attracted to lolis, underage girls. This is expressed by her behavior through the game, her sexual experience on the subject is irrelevant for this tag.
Protagonist of this game is subject of lolicon syndrome, i.e. a pedophile with attraction to young or prepubescent girls. While there is some difference between these definitions in real life - there isn't inside visual novels (or in Japanese culture).
At least one of the heroines is a loli. She's either an underage girl or has the looks of one.
Protagonist of this game is a loli. She's either an underage girl or has the looks of one.
One of this game's support characters is a loli.
Gothic Lolita figures like Rozen Maiden, Le Portrait de Petit Cossette, and Gekkou no Carnevale
This game have a pretty long common route, before it will switch to the individual one. A route can be defined as a "long" by its significant ratio towards the total length of the novel as well as by subjective feelings.
Stories with this tag contain romantic relationships and/or romance between characters that are separated by a considerable distance (e.g. overseas).
There are in the world elements of a technology more advanced than the current level, left behind by past civilizations now extinct. Some times that technology can't be reproduced in the current era.
This VN contains at least one sexual scene involving lotion play, which is the use of lubricant to facilitate sexual acts.
These visual novels use more character sprites for more than just the main cast. Even characters who play a small role in the story have full sprites.
Game contains a high amount of choices. In many cases, you won't be able to play for more than five minutes without seeing a new choice.
These games have significantly more dialogue than the average visual novel.
Games with this tag have a disproportionate amount of event CGs. Can overlap with No Character Sprites if the game uses only CGs and backgrounds to tell its story.
A comedy which central comic focus is on a love story and his problems or obstacles to get to a happy ending, and is common to have harem factors in it.
Lovecraftian horror is a subgenre of horror fiction that emphasizes the cosmic horror of the unknown (or unknowable) more than gore or other elements of shock. Cosmic horror frequently presents a dark and nihilistic universe, where humanity is preyed upon as a mere plaything for all kinds of inconceivable horrors, and all our ideals are naught but cruel illusions
A love hotel is a type of short-stay hotel found around the world operated primarily for the purpose of allowing couples privacy for sexual activities.
These games let you choose the gender of a love interest in the game.
One or more characters (but not all) in this game have only bad endings on their routes.
There is a Love Triangle in the game, usually involving the protagonist.
This visual novel features at least one rape scene, however the number of rape scenes are low in comparison to the number of other sex scenes.
This game features elements and themes of low fantasy.
This is the exact opposite of Nukige. These games have only a couple of hentai scenes per route just for the novelties sake. They are all about (relatively) great stories and should be avoided by people who are looking for an erotic experience.
A cliche that exists in many VNs, eroge, and anime where the protagonist walks in on a girl changing, taking a shower, or some other compromising situation. This is invariably an accident and often results in the protagonist being beaten to a pulp by the girl in question or being lectured about the incident.
This visual novel was created for  Ludum Dare, a game jam focused on creators making a game from scratch in a weekend.
A protagonist well gifted with stereotypically male characteristics such as virility, strength and toughness, particularly with regard to sexual attractiveness.
Visual novels with this tag include scenes of a macrophilic nature. This is often sexual, but sometimes not.
One or more characters in this game are either insane or showing early symptoms of starting to get mad.
One of the support characters in the game is a mad scientist.
These games have at least one hero who is a mage. Unlike the Battlemage Heroine tag this spellcaster do not use his magic in combat.
These games have at least one heroine who is a mage.
The protagonist of this game is is a mage.
If the main mode of combat involves throwing "energy" at the enemy, this applies.
This game features elements and themes related to the paranormal concept of magic.
Magical realism is a narrative style where realistic settings and characterisations are blended with supernatural or mythical elements. These supernatural elements are parts of the everyday life and don't require explonation for the characters in the story.
A significant portion of the game takes place in a magical academy or similar magic education institution.
Mahjong is a game for four players that originated in China. In the game, each player is dealt either thirteen or sixteen tiles in a hand (depending on the variation being played). On their turn, players draw a tile and discard one, with the goal of making four or five melds (also depending on the variation) and one pair, or "head". Winning comes "on the draw", by drawing a new or discarded tile that completes the hand. Thus a winning hand actually contains fourteen (or seventeen) tiles.
The game Mahjong appears in the the story in some content, but it is not an actually playable minigame, just a story-element or plot-device.
One or more of the heroines is a magical girl.
The protagonist of this game is a magical girl (or in some cases, a magical cross-dressing boy).
A magical girl heroine in this visual novel is actually a crossdressing or magically transformed boy.
A magical girl protagonist of this visual novel is actually a crossdressing boy.
These games have at least one heroine who is a maid.
Protagonist is a maid.
One of the game's support characters is a maid.
The visual novel features at least one sex-scene involving male domination.
Supporting characters include one or more male friends of the protagonist.
One or more scenes where the act of Guro is being preformed on a male character.
This visual novel contains a scene (or multiple scenes) in which a hero is stolen away from the protagonist by another male.
Sex between a futanari and a man with the futanari on the receiving end.
This tag is used on stories where one or more male characters sexually assault another male.
There are sex scenes involving two (or possibly more) males.
All sex scenes in this VN feature only male participants.
Sex between a transwoman and a man with the transwoman on the receiving end.
This visual novel features scenes where a non-trap male penetrates or sexually dominates a trap.
A situation where a man either already is or becomes pregnant over the course of events.
This game lets you play with a male protagonist for a short time.
These games have a male protagonist.
These games have support male characters with voice acting.
The protagonist works as a manager or spokesperson of a group or enterprise.
One of this games heroes is a mangaka.
One of this games heroines is a mangaka.
The game's protagonist is a mangaka.
The manticore is a Persian legendary creature similar to the Egyptian sphinx. It has the body of a red lion, a human head with three rows of sharp teeth (like a shark), and a trumpet-like voice. It may be horned, winged, or both. The tail is that of either a dragon or a scorpion.
A man getting his prostate stimulated. Isn't the same as pegging, this would be through manual stimulation using fingers or a toy, whether by the same party or another party.
A hero of this game is a Maou, a demon king (or king of devils etc).
A heroine of this game is a Maou, a demon queen (or queen of devils etc).
The protagonist is a Maou, a demon king (or king of devils etc).
The player can select where to go on a map, be it a world map or a campus map.
A visual novel with this ending contains at least one ending in which key characters get married.
At least one of the heroes of this visual novel is a married man. His marriage may or may not be continuing during the course of the story.
At least one of the heroines of this visual novel is a married woman. Her marriage may or may not be continuing during the course of the story.
The story takes place on Mars.
A heroine of this game is a practitioner of martial arts.
Protagonist of this game is a practitioner of martial arts.
One or more heroes in this game is a masochist.
At least one of this visual novel's heroines is a masochist.
The protagonist of this visual novel is a masochist.
At least one of this visual novel's support characters is a masochist.
This story includes some characters in a master - servant type of relationship.
Game that give you more sexual content to fap than giving you nice story
A game with this tag has a masturbation scene in which a character masturbates whilst somebody else is watching them.
This visual novel contains at least one scene where a character pleasure themselves and this in some way involves a food item.
The game contains at least one scene that features masturbation.
The only sexual content in this visual novel is masturbation.
The game contains at least one scene that features masturbation with object, that is masturbation using random objects (except for sex toys).
This VN contains sexual scenes involving masturbation with water via a faucet, showerhead, jacuzzi jet, etc...
This type of a tsundere is dangerous and scary.
This visual novel contains romance between characters with a significant gap between their ages.
This game contains some choices which are meaningless. They do not affect the endings and change at most one or two lines of dialog or choices are given that lead to the exact same results regardless of which are chosen.
This game features scenes of combat with mecha.
This game has robots and/or robotic suits that are directly operated by human pilots.
One or more heroes in this game pilots/drives/wears? a mecha.
One or more heroines in this game pilots/drives/wears? a mecha.
A hero of this game is a practitioner of medicine, a physician.
A heroine of this game is a practitioner of medicine, a physician.
The protagonist (or a protagonist) of this game is a practitioner of medicine, a physician.
The game is set in a place based on or borrowing aspects from the Middle Ages, but has distinctly fictional elements such as fictional kingdoms or magic.
One of the heroines of this game is a medium.
There are almost Sexual Scene.
The modification, loss, and gaining of memories by a character that is of plot significance, through means that are not natural. For example: falling down stairs and receiving brain trauma could be considered natural in this context, whereas falling down stairs into another dimension and passing/gaining inter-dimensional memories would not.
This game describes the common life of three people that live together in same house and have a romantic and/or sexual relationship between themselves.
In this game there is a mentor support character that teaches the protagonist (or a heroine in rare cases) for the most of the story.
At least one heros of these games is (or was) a mercenary.
At least one heroine of these games is (or was) a mercenary.
The protagonist of the game is (or was) a mercenary.
The protagonist is a merchant.
One or more heroines in this game is a mermaid.
One or more heroes in this game is a merman.
The protagonist in this VN is of a sea dwelling race, a merperson.
Mesopotamian mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
The protagonist is heralded as the "Chosen One", with prophecies, omens et al.
External attributes of the VN (such as it being a work of fiction, or a computer program, or a 2D representation on a screen, or being influenced by a player, etc.) are themselves relevant to the plot of the VN. This may range from just regularly breaking the fourth wall to more subtle plot constructions.
This game features scenes of metal bondage.
When a VN has over 1000 choices for completion, or some number that is ridiculous even compared to Fate/Stay Night and it's 40+ bad endings, or the choice amount in something like Clannad.
A significant part of the game is set in a metropolitan area.
This visual novel was created for MicroRenO, russian analogue of NanoRenO, that happens in August in RVN community, where each participant creates an entire visual novel on Ren'Py engine in the span of a month.
This game has scenes that are set in the Middle Ages Europe.
This game is set within a Middle Eastern setting.
Some part of the game takes place in a middle school.
At least one of the heroes is a junior high school student.
At least one of the heroines is a junior high school student.
The protagonist of this VN is a middle school student.
These games have at least one heroine who is a miko. The traditional dress is common, but not strictly required.
The protagonist of this game is a miko. The traditional dress is common, but not strictly required.
A female character that is both physically attractive and elderly.
MILF refers to a good looking and appealing mother : Check link
Game has many scenes set on a military base.
This visual novel has many scenes set at a military camp.
A significant portion of the game takes place in a military school.
One or or multiple scenes of the NV involve the use of a Milking machine on a female or multiple females
This VN contains scenes involving milking, either through the use of a milking machine or the use of their own or someone else's hands. This tag should be used when milking takes place in a sexual context and not just for some random cow milking.
One or more characters in this VN are subjects of mind break - a severe and/or continuous trauma is too much for him/her to handle and causes mental breakdown. Possible effects include, but aren't limited to:
The game's story features elements of mind control, hypnotism and brainwashing.
This game's backgrounds conforms and expounds upon the modern minimalism movement.
This game's sprites conforms and expounds upon the modern minimalism movement.
These games have pedophilia or other types of minor attraction as a plot element or theme. Don't use this tag if the only relation to pedophila is an h-scene or a loli heroine.
A visual novel with this tag contains at least one scene in which sexual activity/activities takes place in front of a mirror, or any other reflective surface.
This meta tag is to gather character tags that don't specifically apply to a protagonist, heroine or a support character at this level.
A game with this tag has a hero who is mischievous.
At least one of the heroines of this visual novel is mischievous: she likes to trick other characters and play pranks on and has a general playful attitude.
Protagonist of the game likes to trick or play pranks on other characters.
This game features sex in the Missionary Position.
The protagonist of this game is misunderstood to be a delinquent or a pervert due to his/her scary looks or some accidents.
This visual novel features at least one sex scene that involves two males and one female having sex with each other at the same time.
One or more of the heroes of a game with this tag is a professional model.
One or more of the heroines of a game with this tag is a professional model.
The protagonist of a game with this tag is a professional model.
The game is set in, or at least has considerable time of its story taking place in modern day Akihabara.
The story is set in modern-day British Isles.
Large parts of the story is set in modern Canada.
This story is set in modern day China.
The visual novel is set on modern day Earth.
This story is set in modern day Europe.
The game is set in modern day Hokkaido, one of the four main islands of Japan.
These games take place in Modern Day Japan.
This game is set in modern day Korea.
This game is set in an imaginary world whose timeframe resembles our modern world.
The game is set in, or at least has considerable time of its story taking place in modern day Shibuya.
The game is set in Shikoku, on of the four main islands of Japan.
The game is set in, or at least has considerable time of its story taking place in modern day Tokyo.
Large parts of this game take place in modern day United States of America.
One or more of the heroine is a modern tsundere.
A visual novel with this tag supports and contains modifications and/or extra scenarios made by users.
This tag is used for games that mostly focus on its characters moe or cutesy charm, rather than anything else.
One or more characters of the game bearing this tag is molested on a crowded public transport.
One of the heroes in this game is a Monk (link).
One of the heroines in this game is a Monk (link).
This game features scenes where it's characters give birth to non-humanoid creatures. This covers scenes where humanoid characters are laying eggs as well.
Monster girls are a special type of humanization, where the anthropomorphic character is a mix between a creature (both real and fictional) and a girl. Monster girls can also refer to moe versions of already existing monsters, such as vampires or trolls.
This story features one or more non-heroine female monsters. For monster heroines, please use Monster Girl Heroine.
One or more heroes of this story are monsters.
At least one of the heroes is a monster hunter.
At least one of the heroines is a monster hunter.
The protagonist is a monster hunter.
Visual novels with this tag include scenes of a teraphilic nature. This is often sexual, but sometimes not.
The protagonist of this game is a monster.
This game contains one or more scenes of rape involving monsters.
The game takes place in a world inhabited by non-humanoid monsters living in a civilized and integrated into a sociable society.
At least one of a monster-type character has a role as a supporting character.
This game is approved by Moogy. (u/15)
The story takes place on the Moon.
This game has more endings than usual, at least eight or maybe even more.
This game has more heroes than the usual visual novels; at least eight to be specific.
This game has more heroines than the usual visual novels; at least eight to be specific.
Games that present sexual imagery and/or CG censored by a cluster of pixels colored similarly to their surrounding, giving it a look of a mosaic overlaying the explicit parts of the scene.
These games contain sexual scenes between a mother and her daughter. They may or may not be blood-related.
---
One of the heroines is the mother of the protagonist's friend.
These games contain sexual scenes between a mother and her son. They may or may not be blood-related.
This visual novel contains romance between mother and son.
This game has a mother or a mother-type support character, acting motherly and all, to add a family aspect to the game.
These games support motion controllers (i.e. Wii Remote, Playstation Move, Microsoft Kinect).
A visual novel with this tag contains one or more scenes in which mouth gags are used in a sexual context.
This game has a text box that can be manually moved/positioned by the player either through settings in the config, or through clicking and dragging.
This game features scenes of moxibustion torture.
This game can be played by more than one player at the same time. Both same computer/console/handheld and online multiplayer is covered by this tag.
This tag should apply to visual novels in wich you have more than one branching point.
This visual novel has more than one "common route". Usually, this is presented in the following ways:
This game has several ending credits, usually seen on the games with high amounts of endings and ones with episodic stories at the end of each chapter.
This game features two or more girls sequentially and/or simultaneously experience defloration in a single scene.
This character has explicit sexual scene with more than one female character whether it was consentual or not.
This character has explicit sexual scene with more than one male character whether it was consentual or not.
This game has several opening movies besides the very first one at the beginning, usually seen when game shifts to a new phase of the story and sometimes when the player starts on a newly unlocked route.
In a single scene, the protagonist/heroine orgasms more than once.
This game has one or more sexual scenes featuring multiple penetration.
This visual novel features a scene in which a character possesses two or more penises, either naturally or due to a temporary effect (magic, operation, etc).
In order to understand the actual story of this game the player needs to play multiple routes. Each route reveals some bits of the mystery.
In order to understand the full story of this game the player needs to play multiple routes.
These games have songs in them aside from the usual opening and ending songs.
There are several endings in this game that are either considered true or are designated so in the VN itself.
Game contains choices that allow you to pick more than one answer from the same list, either all at once, or successively.
In fiction mummies are undead creatures whose corpses has been mummified and animated.
This story has elements of crime fiction, mainly on the murder mystery front.
A game with this tag is set in Japan during the Muromachi era.
A hero in this game is very muscular. Generally, they are characterized by their buff, large, and rugged body structure that physically makes them look strong and muscular.
A heroine in this game is very muscular. Generally, they are characterized by their buff, large, and rugged body structure that physically makes them look strong and muscular.
A significant part of this game is set in a  museum.
The game largely takes place in a musical environment - for example, a band, an orchestra, a music school, or similar.
A significant part of the game is set in a musical theater.
The story of this game revolves around music.
A school's music club and the activities related to it takes an important role in this story.
One of the heroines of this game is a musician.
Protagonist of this game is a musician.
This visual novel allows the player to listen to its soundtrack from the menu.
These games have at least one Musuko-type heroine.
These games have at least one Musume-type heroine.
A hero in this story suffers from muteness.
A heroine in this story suffers from muteness.
A support character in this story suffers from muteness.
When both the protagonist and a main character are encouraged to feel passionately intimate.
A visual novel in this tag contains at least one scene of mutual masturbation.
This visual novel features characters and/or settings from the My Little Pony franchise.
This game features elements and themes related to the mystery genre.
These tags are for games that feature scenes passing on locations taken directly from these myths (or locations inspired by those), not the games that has elements from these myths.
One or more heroines of this game are nagas.
Naginata(長刀) are basically swords mounted at the end of a stick. They are used traditionally by women (of the warrior class) to defend their homes. A rather deadly and elegant weapon.
The game contains at least one scene that features titty fucking performed by a character with small breasts.
Dogeza is an element of Japanese etiquette which involves kneeling directly on the ground and bowing to prostrate oneself while touching one's head to the floor. This visual novel features characters performing this act naked, usually as a form of sexual humiliation.
This game features scenes where one or more of the game's heroines appear wearing an apron and nothing else.
This game features naked character sprites.
This type of a story is designed to have an emotional impact on the player and make itself memorable, crying is usual but mostly optional.
These games have one or more characters whose names can be changed.
These games have one or more heroines whose names can be changed.
This visual novel lets the player to name a pet.
You can set the name of the protagonist of this game.
You can give your own names to units
The game has nanomachines as an important part of the story.
This tag indicates visual novels created for NaNoRenO, an event that happens annually in March in the OELVN/EVL community, where each participant creates an entire visual novel in the span of a month.
Hunting for a date is a strong theme in this game's story.
On a regular game player can hear the thoughts of the protagonist, but not the other characters. Unlike those, games bearing this tag allows you to hear the thoughts of other characters as well, just as a part of its narrative, not because the protagonist has psychic powers or something.
The narrator of this visual novel is a character in their own right, distinct from the protagonist and aware of their role in telling the story. They may interact with characters, giving advice or guiding the story, and characters may be aware of the narrator and converse or argue with them.
This visual novel contains natural disasters (e.g. earthquakes, tornadoes, landslides, etc.).
This visual novel features naval warfare.
The game contains at least one scene that features navel penetration.
This visual novel features at least one character with a navel piercing.
One or more of the heroes in this game is enlisted in a naval force.
This game is set in a near future time period. A borderline time period between modern day and the future.
This game contains sexual acts involving corpses, called necrophilia.
An heroine of this game is a NEET, meaning that she is not in education, employment or training.
The protagonist of this game is a NEET, they aren't in education, employment or training.
One of the heroes of the game sports cat-like ears. They can be natural for non-human/demi-human characters or they can just be an accessory.
For games featuring heroines with catlike ears or anything that would remind it as their signature part or appearance, such as a hairband with cat ears or her hair being shaped exactly like one.
This visual novel is set in the same universe as Neon Genesis Evangelion, or feature characters from the franchise.
This visual novel has scenes focused on Netorare (寝取られ). Netorare is more than a simple act of infidelity, but the fetishization of jealousy and other negative feelings commonly associated with it.
In novels focused on this type the protagonist (and therefore the reader) is unaware of the adultery when it starts, and over time gets suspicious and starts to worry. By the time the female is caught in the act it has been going on for a far longer time then the protagonist suspected.
One of the scenes of the game is focused on role-playing a Netorare situation.
The heroine is willingly cheating on the protagonist with another guy and enjoys every second of it. No rape, blackmail, drugs etc. involved, it's consensual sex from the very beginning.
Initially, the heroine is raped, blackmailed, drugged or otherwise tricked to have sex with someone other than the protagonist. However, she eventually starts enjoying it and the sex becomes fully consensual in the end.
The heroine is raped in front of the protagonist and he can only helplessly watch it. It's non-consensual from start to finish.
By the deliberate actions/inactions of the protagonist, or by the agreement with the significant other, in this VN their committed partner ends up engaging in sexual relations with other people. Only one member of the couple has sex with others.
Netori is a counterpart tag to Netorare, however instead of playing as someone who has his significant lover stolen, you play as the one doing the stealing.
This game allows you to use previous playthrough's saves on future play sessions. Allowing further character building and access to higher level content etc on each replay.
Heroine of this visual novel has an overall feminine body, however they do not possess a vagina, instead they have a penis (testicles are optional).
Protagonist of this visual novel has an overall feminine body, however they do not possess a vagina, instead they have a penis (testicles are optional). Additionally, the protagonist was not born as male, they got their male genitalia in some other way.
Protagonist of this visual novel has an overall feminine body, however they do not possess a vagina, instead they have a penis (testicles are optional).
This game has an instance of the heroine and the protagonist having sex after they marry. The marriage can be symbolic (Mock wedding) or recognized by law.
The protagonist of this game is a ninja.
This game features characters or settings from the Nintendo universe(s).
These games include at least one scene where something (object or body part) is inserted into a nipple.
This visual novel features at least one character with a nipple piercing.
The story does not include a primary opponent or rival for the protagonist(s).
This game does not give the option for the game to automatically go on to the next textbox or line after a set amount of time.
These visual novels have no background music, and might not have any sound at all.
In this visual novel the backlog function is not present. You can't read any previous lines.
One or more heroes of this VN is from a noble family, a member of nobility.
The protagonist of this VN is from a noble family, a member of nobility.
Games with this tag let you to switch off clothing for the heroines, allowing you to see them naked at all times. Usually the option exists in the settings of the game.
The game was released with a separate game patch which after installation allows the player to turn off clothes on the sprites of characters, making them naked. (Mainly for female characters and mostly main heroines.)
This VN doesn't have a common route.
This heroine is ignorant of the ways of the world.
This game features very little to zero number of event CG's.
This visual novel has no distinguishable heroes or heroines to speak of. It doesn't have routes centred around romanceable characters.
This visual novel does not have an option that allows character voices to continue after proceeding to next line.
The game does not have music replaying mode.
This game contains no narration dialogue of any kind.
At least one of the characters of this game identifies as a non-binary gender.
At least one of the love interests of this game is non-binary or genderqueer.
The protagonist of this game identifies as a non-binary gender.
The reader has an choice to be non-binary, either by choosing a gender neutral pronoun or selecting a non-binary protagonist option.
These games contain sexual scenes between non-blood-related brothers.
These games contain sexual scenes between a non-blood-related brother and sister.
These games contain sexual scenes between a non-blood-related father and daughter.
At least one hero in this visual novel is the protagonist's father, but they are not biologically related to one another.
These games contain sexual scenes between a non-blood-related father and son.
This eroge contains sexual scenes involving characters which are related but are not blood-related (adopted siblings and similar).
These games contain sexual scenes between a non-blood-related mother and daughter.
These games contain sexual scenes between a non-blood-related mother and son.
These games contain sexual scenes between a non-blood-related uncle and niece.
A visual novel with this tag contains one or more scenes in which humiliation is non-consensually used to demean the receiver and (usually sexually) gratify the person doing the humiliating.
Non-consensual Kiss is an activity(or more) kissing occurring between two or more people who are assault person(s) and kissed person(s). This can be in or out of the cognitions of the assaulted person.
This visual novel features mind control techniques that are not sexual in nature.
One of the themes in this visual novel is the moral erosion of some of its characters.
Unavoidable rape scenes in this game are only ones that are concerning the non-heroine characters. If there are any rape scenes concerning the heroines they can be avoided.
At least one of the heroes might look human, but he is way more than that...
At least one of the heroines might look human, but she is way more than that...
The protagonist might look human, other characters might think the protagonist is human, but the protagonist isn't actually human.
The game includes a non-human character as a love interest.
This game contains non-Japanese voice acting.
The music featured in this VN was not created for this VN specifically. It was either licensed (non-VN example would be the in-game radio stations in GTA games) or the developers used royalty free music. Or, possibly, the soundtrack is used without permission in an illegal manner.
The game contains at least one scene that features Non-penetrative sex.
A non-protagonist character falls in love with one of the main heros/heroines of the game, it needs to be relatively important on the story, and not just a joke.
Games where the story often doesn't even pretend to make sense. Not to be confused with a merely convoluted or confused plot, this refers to cases where the very idea of plot is completely discarded.
This game has dramatic events related to child abuse that is not sexual in its nature.
This visual novel features a scene in which one or more characters are engaging in cosplay. This cosplay is not erotic in nature or part of a sex scene.
At least two heroes in this game are the brothers of each other, but they are not twins.
A hero in this game is nonverbal. He may either be completely mute or make vocalizations without using language.
A heroine in this game is nonverbal. She may either be completely mute or make vocalizations without using language.
This game has no opening song/movie.
This features a non-sexual intercourse scene where a female character wearing normal wear but discreetly not wearing panty or any other garments of similar purpose.
All events in the story (if any story at all) happens without a protagonist... It does not focus on anyone/anything or centered around anyone/anything specifically and characters operate on their own...
This game does not give the option of quick saving and loading.
This visual novel does not focus on romance, nor features any dedicated romance subplots. While attraction, sexual tension or teasing may exist between characters, be they main or side characters, there is no explicit focus on romance.
Norse mythology strongly influences the setting and events in this VN.
In this visual novel you can't save at all. It's as simple as that.
One (or more) of the game's heroines has no sense of direction.
The game depicts a very graphic description in-game but without showing any sexual event CG on screen
This game has no sexual and real erotic content at all. It may have some small fan services here and there but those would be at a level that you would normally can see on an anime on TV.
In this visual novel, there's no way to fast forward through lines or scenes, even if you've already read them.
These games don't have an option to make the skip mode only skip read text.
There is no title screen and the game just automatically starts the moment it is launched...
Games that have sexual scenes where the two partners have orgasms at different time. Which is different to most novels where both have orgarms together or when the ejaculation happens.
This vnual Novel was made using the [url=visualnovelty.com/]Novelty Visual Novel Engine[/url]
None of the heroines in the game are virgins; all are confirmed in-universe to have had sexual experience prior to the events of the story.
nobody has voice acting
This visual novel was made using the link
This visual novel was made using the NScripter visual novel engine.
Netorare (寝取られ) are games where someone steals the heroine away from the protagonist.
This game comes with an option to turn character sprites' clothing off. Gameplay is not affected by the change.
Some characters are living nude while in their everyday life, during a significant portion of the game.
This visual novel is focused on the erotic content, the storyline and characterization (if any) play a secondary role, and only provide setting for the sex-scenes. Plot serves the sex-scenes, not the other way round.
These games have at least one heroine who is a nun. Christianity not required.
This game's protagonist is a nun.
One of the games heroes is a nurse.
One of the games heroines is a nurse.
The protagonist of this game is a nurse.
The game is set at a nursery school or Kindergarten or similar, where children of ages 3-6 (give or take) receive education before they embark in primary school.
One of the support characters in the game is a nurse.
This visual novel contains at least one scene featuring a nursing handjob.
In these games, the box with the text occupies all or most of the screen. The box may have a border, like in Fate/stay night, or no border, like in Kira☆Kira.
Protagonist of this game has a sexual addiction.
At least 1 character in this game is an obacon.
These games include at least one scene where something other than a sex toy or body part is inserted into an orifice.
The protagonist in this story acts only as an observer to the action or story. They take no meaningful actions other than to relate the story to the reader or their actions are of little consequence to the plot or characters.
One of the characters have an obsession that plays an important part in this story. It may be a revenge the protagonist is obsessing about or it may be a heroine obsessing about uncovering a certain truth.
Occult club and the activities related to it takes an important role in this story.
This game has one or multiple octopuses taking an important role in the story. Or it has octopuses all around in multiple scenes with several lines of dialogue related to them.
Short for Original English Language Visual Novel. A Visual Novel that was designed originally in English.
Games with this tag mostly take place inside an office or a similar location.
One or more heroines in this game are office ladies.
The protagonist of this game is an office lady.
At least one heroine of this game is an officer (a soldier in a position of authority) in a military force.
Protagonist of this game is an officer (a soldier in a position of authority) in a military force.
All of the erotic content of these VNs happens behind the scenes.
One or more of the heroines in this game belong to the upper class.
The protagonist of this game is an upper class woman.
One of the heroes in this game fits the stereotype of an okama, an overly flamboyantly feminine transvestite or homosexual.
One of the support characters in this game fits the stereotype of an okama, an overly flamboyantly feminine transvestite or homosexual.
One of the endings can only be unlocked after the player have discovered all other outcomes of the game. Tv Tropes (link) article for further reference.
This VN takes place in a setting with Alpha/Beta/Omega dynamics, in which some or all people have defined biological roles based on a hierarchical system, with the terms originating from animal behaviour research. There may be werewolf, knotting, or other animalistic elements involved, or the characters may be otherwise purely human.
This story features scenes involving the use of artificial vaginas (aka onaholes).
At some point in the game, the main character has two or more character on all four towards him, and has to choose which one he wants to have sex with.
These games have at least one oneesan-type-character. An oneesan-type heroine is a heroine who is not a sibling or a step-sibling to the protagonist but acts and gets treated like a big sister anyway.
Similar to bukkake but with only one man eyaculating on the woman/women, instead of various.
In the case where the game has several protagonists, each one of them has as romantic interest a different main character.
It contains only one sexual content.
The visual novel has not been completed and is still under development.
One or more heroes in this game are oni.
One or more heroines in this game is an oni - a japanese demon.
Protagonist in this game is an oni.
This game has parts that require an active internet connection to be used, like online multiplayer, uploading or downloading custom characters or maps, etc.
This game, upon completion, redirects you on a omake webpage, usually containing questionnaires, side stories, artworks, yon-komas or a comment section.
This game has only a single heroine to interact with, that's all the story is about.
At least one of the heroes of this visual novel may die during the course of the story, but none of the hero deaths are unavoidable.
At least one of the heroines can die during the story of this visual novel. However, none of the heroine deaths are unavoidable.
All the scenes in which heroines engages in sex with someone other than the protagonist can be avoided.
All the rape scenes in which heroines get raped by someone other than the protagonist can be avoided.
All rape scenes involving the game's heroes in this game can be avoided - they're in bad ends (that you do not need to see to get the good ends), or can simply be avoided by taking the right choices.
Netorare scenes in this game can be averted by the player's action, meaning you can play from beginning to the end without witnessing any such acts. Usually, they are in their own routes or are in the separate bad ends. The scenes where you can choose not to witness the NTR events, but they still happen behind the scenes, should not be counted as avoidable.
This visual novel features scenes in which the protagonist is raped, but all of these scenes are avoidable.
All the rape scenes in which characters get raped by someone other than the protagonist can be avoided.
All the rape scenes in which characters get raped by the protagonist can be avoided.
The story of this game can be enjoyed to the end without seeing any sexual content. Sexual content is only present in side stories or in specific endings, or can simply be avoided by making the right choices. (Or the wrong choices, depending on your point of view.)
All the scenes in which characters engages in sex with someone other than the protagonist can be avoided.
All the scenes in which side characters engages in sex with someone other than the protagonist can be avoided.
All the rape scenes in which side characters get raped by someone other than the protagonist can be avoided.
At least one hero of this story only dies in one or more bad endings.
The protagonist of this story only dies in one or more bad endings.
This game has only bad endings. The type of the game may vary, but when you reach to the end of the story, it won't end with a happy ending, no matter what you try.
This game is completely composed of CGs, without any usual character potraits or sprites
All heroines in this story are blood-related to the protagonist, regardless of familiar status or name (for example, including sisters that have been married off and changed their family affiliations or the hidden lovechild of one of the protagonists parents/grandparents).
The game only has female characters.
Some visual novels don't have male voiced characters.
This visual novel only contains Male characters.
This game has only one bad ending. The rest of the endings are good endings.
This game has only one good ending. The rest of the endings are bad endings. There may or may not be a high amount of bad endings depending on the story but regardless of the number of endings only one ending is good.
The game is focused on only one heroine.
All sex scenes in this VN feature either only female or only male participants. This includes homosexual scenes (either Yuri, Yaoi or both) and masturbation. Note that in case of mutual masturbation, all participants must of the same sex too.
All of the heroes assume a seme ("top"/penetrating) role in this visual novel's yaoi pairings.
All of the scenes in the game are ero-scenes, there's not even a single scene in the game that it's not about sex.
All of the heroines of this visual novel are a boys whose physical features make them look like girls to the point that they could be mistaken for one.
All of the heros in this game are actually cross-dressing girls.
All of the heroes assume an uke ("bottom"/receiving) role in this visual novel's yaoi pairings.
All of the Heroes of this visual novel are versatiles.
Every characters who've a sexual intercourse are virgins, protagonist inclued.
All the heroines, i.e, those that have routes, in this game are virgins.
A hero who works as an onmyouji, fighting or casting out demons with methods based on Buddhist and/or Taoist mythology. This usually includes the use of mudra (hand positions), prayer beads, chanting, and/or holy symbols in Sanskrit.
A Heroine of this game is an onmyouji.
The protagonist of this game is an onmyouji.
Onna Bugeisha - Female Weaponmaster
One or more characters, usually just the protagonist, are running away from someone in this VN.
The story of this game does not have clear cut, conclusive and definitive ending(s). There will be many questions unanswered and outcome of certain events will never be explained.
This game contains at least one sexual scene where a character wears an open gag.
An open relationship is an umbrella term for any relationship that is open to new sexual and/or romantic partners.
This game relies on the use of a simulated OS which imitates reality, such as a DOS computer or an Android phone, as one of the main ways to progress the narrative of the story.
This game contains a heroine who has a typical "loli" look, but with large breasts instead of the flat chest more commonly seen on such designs.
Mini-games and battle sequences in this game are optional. They can be turned off and/or skipped easily without playing them even once. Well except for an introduction or a brief tutorial of course.
These games have an option to disable all sexual content.
One of the heroes is an orc.
One of the heroines is an orc.
The protagonist of this visual novel is an orc.
Choices in this game are ordered.
One or more of the heroines in this game uses the "ore" Japanese pronoun to address herself.
This story involves the corruption of some sort of organisation be it a school council or an entire government.
The subtags of this metatag are for games in which certain organizations play an important role - usually because the protagonist and/or his friends/love interests are members of said organizations or are affiliated with them.
Orgasm denial is usually associated with BDSM relationships. It means that the dominant partner doesn't allow the submissive partner to have an orgasm. This denial might last for a longer period of time (usually involving a g1375) or the denial comes in the form of bringing the submissive partner to the edge of orgasm, but not allowing them to actually have one. This might be done for a few minutes or for several hours.
For a game that has been translated, in-game text can be viewed both in original language and post-translation. Viewing both languages may or may not be simultaneous.
One or more heroes in this game are orphans.
Protagonist is an orphan.
Japanese synonym for the recently added tag "Buttjob", see also here and here.
One of the supporting characters is an anime (cosplaying/manga/video games) Otaku. Meaning that he/she is obsessed with this hobby of his/her, to a harmless degree though. Usually this happens to be the best friend of the protagonist or at least as a close friend.
One of the heroes is an anime (cosplaying/manga/video games) Otaku. Meaning that he is obsessed with this hobby of his, generally to a harmless degree.
One of the heroines is an anime (cosplaying/manga/video games) Otaku. Meaning that she is obsessed with this hobby of hers, to a harmless degree though.
The protagonist is an anime/manga/video game otaku.
These tags are the elements of a story that doesn't fit under the other groups.
This game sometimes jumps to the perspectives of the characters other than the protagonist. But it doesn't stay in that point of view long enough to consider that character as an another lead or let you make choices etc.
This tag is the parent tag for other characters in the game, not the protag nor any of the heroines.
A game with a female protagonist, with the central focus on developing a relationship with one or more male characters. These games are usually aimed at a female audience, such as Tokimeki Memorial Girls' Side.
When a Hero have a "Prince complex" (Aka he wants people to treat him as loyalty and as a superior being) they are called Oujidere (the female counterpart would be Himedere, wheter they are from loyalty or not is not important, use this tag when a hero have this type of personality.
These games feature sexual scenes in an outdoor area. That is, any area not enclosed by walls, a roof and a floor.
This visual novel includes an avatar creator separate from the story. Changing the avatar’s appearance does not affect the appearance of any characters in the story.
Protagonist is an overlord. He leads an Army of Darkness to conquer the whole known universe (or something similar).
The protagonist of the game is far more powerful than most other characters.
The protagonist of this novel is an old(er) man.
Oyakodon or Oyako Donburi is a Japanese term describing a situation in which someone manages to have his/her way with a mother and her daughter at once (most often, in a sexual way). In this case it applies if when the game ends, the protagonist is in a relationship with a mother and her daughter at the same time (with both of them aware of it).
This game has heroines that are mother and daughter.
A visual novel with this tag features pachinko game gameplay.
A visual novel with this tag contains one or more rape scenes in which the victim doesn't experience any pleasure whatsoever from the act.
One of the heroes is a creative artist in the medium of painting.
Protagonist is a creative artist in the medium of painting.
This visual novel has many scenes set in a royal palace.
The protagonist of this novel is a paladin.
The game has considerable amount of panchira scenes.
This game includes a panic button. This allows the player to quickly hide the game with a blank screen or innocuous-looking image, in case they are interrupted during a NSFW scene.
This visual features a scene where a character (usually female) is gagged by (usually their own) underwear.
---
The outline of the panties being visible underneath tight clothes. Doesn't apply to panties under pantyhose or other see-through clothes, obviously.
Paranoia is a thought process believed to be heavily influenced by anxiety or fear, often to the point of irrationality and delusion. Paranoid thinking typically includes persecutory beliefs, or beliefs of conspiracy concerning a perceived threat towards oneself. (e.g. "Everyone is out to get me.")
Features scenes where characters enact in paraphilic infantilism.
This game has one or multiple parasitic creatures taking an important role in the story. Or it has parasites all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
A game with this tag involves parasites or symbiotes.
This game has themes or events related to parenting.
This game is a parody of something. A popular game, a book, a tv show...can be anything.
Some of the H-scenes in this game are animated.
Some of the H-scenes in this game are animated.
Applies to games which contain voice acting, but do not have a voice for every line spoken by characters other than the protagonist. Specific characters may be entirely unvoiced, various scenes may lack voices for any and all characters, or a combination of both.
The characters working on part-time job is an important part of this story.
The time frame of the events is substantial and meaningful for the plot. By the end of the story reader should truly feel a significant passage of time in the world. This should mean at least years or even centuries passing and characters or the world changing over time.
This game doesn't use the conventional method of saving the game to keep a record of your progress. Instead it gives you passwords to keep.
A game with this tag is set in a past period of the British Isles.
These games take place in Past China.
These are the tags for the games that take place in Earth's Past.
The game is set in a time before our own. Games may or may not adhere to historic fact.
These games take place in past Greece.
These games take place in past Korea.
This game is set in an imaginary world whose timeframe resembles the past of our world.
The game is set in, or at least has considerable time of its story taking place in past Tokyo, or in Edo, Tokyo's former name.
Large parts of this game take place in the United States of America of the past.
The game contains the protagonist or another character killing their father.
Protagonist of this game is pedophile. Do not use this tag for protagonists without considerable age difference between them and their sexual interests.
This game features a scene where someone observes another party through an obscure position..
This game features scenes involving pegging.
This visual novel contains at least one scene that features masturbation by stimulating ones own penis.
This VN has scenes of a character wearing the male version of a chastity belt called penis cage.
This game contains at least one sex scene where one of the characters uses a penis enhancer.
Game contains scenes of penis removal, voluntary or less than fully voluntary...
One or more of the heroes in this game works as a film, television or theatre director.
These games contain scenes of combat with (hand-held) weapons, like swords, firearms and the like.
One of the supporting characters is a bit too occupied with sexual things. Usually this happens to be the best friend of the protagonist or at least as a close friend.
One or more heroes in a visual novel with this tag is a pervert.
For heroines that are a bit too occupied with sexual things.
One of the heroes of this visual novel is a P.E. teacher.
One of the heroines in the game is a P.E. teacher.
The protagonist(s) of this visual novel is/are a P.E. teacher(s) (link).
This game features petplay.
A character in this visual novel is turned into a statue/rock-like formation either temporarily or permanently.
This game contains a pet acting as a support character. It may be the pet of the protagonist or the pet of a hero/heroine.
The protagonist of this game have a very small chest size.
This game revolves around the theme of Kaitou. Or "gentleman thieves", in English.
Story has somekind of natural or unnatural phenomenon taking part in the flow of the story.
This visual novel is set in the Philippines.
This game features philosophical themes and/or lengthy philosophical discussions.
This visual novel has scenes that take place in a photo booth.
One of the heroines in this game is a photographer.
The protagonist in this game is a photographer.
The backgrounds in the game were originally photographs. Likely filtered to some degree, but still clearly recognizable as such.
The characters are not represented by drawings or CG, but by photographs of actors.
These visual novels contain games where the player takes pictures.
Problems regarding the physical health of its characters play an important role in this story.
The protagonist lives close to one of the heroines.
This VN has some of it's characters doing pig cosplay wearing a pig costume or dress.
A visual novel in this tag contains at least one scene in which the piledriver position is adopted during a sexual scene.
A game with this tag has a sex scene in which a character engages in a sexual act whilst restrained in a pillory.
This novel features pillow talk, a sweet romantic conversation between lovers directly after a sex scene.
One or more heroes of this game is a pilot or a crewman of an airplane, aka. an aviator.
This heroine is a pilot or a crewman of an airplane, aka. an aviator.
This protagonist is a pilot or a crewman of an airplane, aka. an aviator.
Traffickers, also known as pimps or madams, exploit vulnerabilities and lack of opportunities, while offering promises of marriage, employment, education, and/or an overall better life.
One or more of the heroes in this game is a pirate.
One or more heroines in this story are pirates.
The protagonist of this story is a pirate.
Pirates play an important role in this story.
Consumption of urine.
This visual novel contains a scene featuring a character urinating.
This VN contains at least one sexual scene where a character is seen pissing on his own face; this is usually achieved through a plough pose.
Pistols. Handguns. These games use them.
After a really depressing moment for the protagonist, an heroine offers him sex because she feels bad for him and wants to cheer him up. Also done as a favor on pathetic males that nobody would bed if they didn't beg for it.
This game uses pixel art.
One or more heroes of this game is a sentient plant - he could be the actual plant moving around, or "just" an avatar of it.
One or more heroines of this game is a sentient plant - she could be the actual plant moving around, or "just" an avatar of it.
For games that feature a lot of plant and flower related scenes.
Games with this tag has some amounts of jumping to and from suspended platforms. They may be dungeon floors in a 2D platformer, or climbing a mountain in a 3D one.
One or more of the heroes in this story is a playboy.
The protagonist in this story is a playboy.
This game has you, the player, taking active part in the game, as 'yourself'.
These games support microphone accessories, and can be interacted with through use of the player's real-life voice.
This game features one or more scenes featuring play piercing.
These games let you know how many hours you've spent reading them with a time counter or timer.
This visual novel have a plot lock, in one or more routes. Plot Locks are Fake or Incomplete endings that happen when the reader goes down a route without fufilling certain conditions first. When the route reaches a certain point, it will abruptly stop and show a sort of warning message (A literal one or a "Game Over" like message) saying that the player cannot proceed. This system is normally found in games with Built-In flowcharts and it works as a different type of "Game Over".
Plot tags are the ones about 'how' the game's story is told. What type of a story it is, what kinds of routes and endings it includes, what known methods are used etc.
Games with this tag involve girls being stuck in, entering or put in a pod. The pod scene should include sex or penetration of some kind, by tentacles, tubes or plant vines.
This visual novel uses poetry to tell all or part of its story.
This visual novel is set in the same universe as Pokémon, or feature characters from the franchise.
This game features poker.
This game depicts pole dancing.
The police have a major role in this game. One or more characters are members of the police force, and/or police work is significantly involved in the game's plot.
A hero of a game with this tag is a police officer.
A heroine of this game is a police officer.
Protagonist of this game is a police officer.
One or more of the heroes in a visual novel tagged under this is a politician.
A heroine in this story is a politician. Since this is a fictional story, she may even be one of those fabled not-corrupt ones...
This game has scenes of detailed political discussions.
This visual novel contains polyamorous characters.
This game features polygamy.
This game has a hero with a ponytail.
This game has a heroine with a ponytail.
At least one of the heroes of this game is poor or in poverty.
One of the heroines of this game is poor. She is either working to earn a living or suffering from poverty.
The artists that drew some of the Event CGs in this game have poor drawing skills and/or knowledge of the human body. As a result, the characters depicted will have at least one serious anatomy flaw that will push them into Uncanny valley territory: extra-long necks or limbs, missing arms or hips, curved bones, broken back, misaligned eyes and mouth, muscles that don't exist, shoulder boobs, etc.
Protagonist of this game is poor. He (or she) is either working to earn a living or suffering from poverty.
This VN includes references to elements, characters, and events that aren't part of this work's lore, but which are mainstays of the target audience's culture. The author adds those as homages or as nods to this subculture, meaning that readers unfamiliarized with these elements will miss part of the experience.
This type of protagonist is popular from the beginning of the game or becomes one shortly after. Opposed to the usual VN protagonist that becomes popular at the end of the game.
This visual novel is presented in portrait orientation (where the height is greater than the width), as opposed to the more common landscape orientation (where the width is greater than the height).
A demonic possession or a spirit possession is portrayed in this visual novel.
A considerable part of this game is set on a post apocalyptic setting, if not all.
The heroine of this visual novel is by nature calculating, ruthless, and capable of doing what is necessary to achieve his goals. Even if her motivation is passion, her course of action will come from careful consideration of a situation.
This character is a protagonist who is by nature calculating, ruthless, and capable of doing what is necessary to achieve his goals. Even if his motivation is passion, his course of action will come from careful consideration of a situation.
Pregnancy is not always positive. Depending on interpretation it can sometimes be very unpleasant or even tragic.
This VN contains sexual scenes involving characters with dark nipples due to pregnancy.
Stories involving pregnancy.
The game features an ending in which a character is pregnant and this is perceived as a good, happy thing.
This tag applies only when a pregnant heroine's sprite/CG enlarges over time, showing her pregnancy is coming to term. There must be at least two different sprites/CGs showing the pregnancy with a noticeable difference in size between the two.
Stories involving the impregnation of one of the characters which is elves heroine.
This game features character sprites depicted as being pregnant.
This game's art is 3D, but it isn't being rendered in realtime.
Backgrounds on this game are pre-rendered.
Tags that describe the look and feel of the game. Not how the game is played, but how the games contents are presented to the reader.
One or more heroes of this game are pretending their personality.
Protagonist of this game is pretending his/her personality.
One or more heroines of this game is a priestess.
The protagonist of this game is a priest or priestess.
One or more heroes of this game is a priest.
One of this games support characters is a priest.
This game has one or multiple primates (other than humans) taking an important role in the story. Or it has primates (other than humans) all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
At least one protagonist of this story is a prince.
At least one of the heroines fits the western image of a princess - she will usually wear gowns (though she might wear armor for combat, or a school uniform to fit in) and have a crown.
The protagonist of this game is a princess - she will usually wear gowns (though she might wear armor for combat, or a school uniform to fit in) and have a crown.
One of the heroes is the most senior teacher and the leader of a school.
The protagonist is the most senior teacher and the leader of a school.
The game has many scenes set in a prison.
One of the heroes is a private detective.
The protagonist makes a living as a private detective.
The opposite of Hetare Protagonist.
One of this games heroes is protagonist's nephew.
This visual novel features the makings of drawn pornographic content, be it animated or not. This includes, but not limited to hentai.
Tags about the production of different types of pornography belong under this meta-tag.
Production of Pornography (Professional)
The visual novel contains professional wrestling material or characters involved in the professional wrestling show business.
One or more heroes of this VN are programmers.
This game contains sexual scenes involving prolapse.
This visual novel shows promiscuous activity, i.e. characters engaging in sexual activities with several partners without getting into a relationship with them.
The heroine in this game is promiscuous. She engages in sexual activity frequently and indiscriminately with different partners.
The protagonist in this game is promiscuous. They engage in sexual activity frequently and indiscriminately with different partners.
The engine supports (and uses) proportional instead of monospaced fonts.
The protagonist proposes/is proposed to by a hero(ine).
One of the game's heroes engages in sexual activities in exchange for money.
Protagonist of this game engages in sexual activities in exchange for money. For details check prostitution.
These games have scenes involving prostitution.
This protagoinst of the game has face less visible shown in some CG scenes.
The protagonist of the game also plays the role of a heroine in the game. That is to say for a part of the story the protagonist instead becomes a romance-able character.
In the whole game protagonist is the only female character to appear.
In the whole game protagonist is the only male character to appear.
The protagonist of a game with this tag is based on a fictional character from a different book, anime, cartoon, comic, manga, movie, play, visual novel, etc.
The protagonist of a game with this tag is based on a character appearing in mythological accounts or stories. Mythological figures are often godly, heroic or humans with supernatural powers.
The protagonist of this game portraits a person from the real world.
The protagonist of this visual novel is from a different world than the one it takes place in.
You can play either a male or female (or possibly other gender) protagonist.
This protagonist is already committed to a romantic relationship as the story starts, or does so at the very early stages of the story.
This game has side images that show only the protagonist.
This metatag is to gather protagonist tags related to their appearance.
One of the heroines of the visual novel is protagonis's aunt.
One of this games heroines is protagonist's blood-related daughter.
One of this games heroines is protagonist's biological mother.
One of this game's heroines is protagonist's blood related sister.
This is a meta tag to gather all tags regarding the body type, proportions and skin colors of protagonists.
At least one of the heroes in this game is the protagonist's boss. The protagonist takes orders (in)directly from that hero.
At the start of the game one or more heroes are already in a relationship with the protagonist as their boyfriend(s).
One of this games heroes is protagonist's brother. Younger, older or twin doesn't really matter.
These are the tags concerning protagonists', or his/her parents' origins.
At least one of the heroes of this game is a childhood friend of the protagonist.
One or more of the heroines is a childhood friend of the protagonist. (Forgotten) marriage promise optional but common.
One or more of the heroes is a cousin of the protagonist.
One or more of the heroines is a cousin of the protagonist.
One of this games heroines is protagonist's daughter.
At the beginning of this game you have to choose one of the characters to play as the protagonist.
At least one of the heroines in this game is the protagonist's employee. The heroine takes orders (in)directly from the protagonist.
At least one of the heroes in this game is the protagonist's employee. The hero takes orders (in)directly from the protagonist.
One or more of the heroes were previously in a relationship with the protagonist, but they are now broken up, divorced, and/or estranged.
Protagonist's face is fully draw and visible during one or more sex scene.
One of this game's heroes is the protagonist's father.
One or more of the heroes is a fiance of the protagonist.
One or more of the heroines is a fiancee of the protagonist.
One of this games heroines is protagonist's fully blood-related (same mother AND father) sister. Younger, older or twin doesn't really matter.
One of the heroes in the game is the protagonist's Grandfather (blood-relation isn't taken into account).
One of the heroines in the game is the protagonist's grandmother.
One of this games heroines is protagonist's grandmother.
One of the heroes in the game is the protagonist's Grandson
At least one heroine is the protagonist's half-sister.
One of the heroes is (or was) the protagonist's husband.
These games have at least one hero who is an underclassman of the protagonist. Some examples can be a junior at a work place or a student of a class some years below.
These games have at least one heroine who is a kouhai of the protagonist. Some examples can be a junior at a work place or a student of a class some years below.
One of this games heroines is protagonist's mother.
One of this game's heroines is protagonist's niece.
One of this games heroines is protagonist's social female parent.
At least one heroine in this visual novel is the protagonist's sister, but they are not biologically related to one another.
One or more of this game's heroines are protagonist's elder sisters. It doesn't matter if they are blood-related to the protagonist or not.
This game has one or more heroines who compete or fight against the protagonist. This could be in the form of a contest, game, or argument.
This meta-tag is to gather protagonist traits related to their personalities.
This game let's you pick which pronouns the protagonist uses.
This game has one or more heroes that have a rivalry going on with other heroes or the protag. These heroes get many of their scenes in events related to these rivalries.
This game has one or more heroines that have a rivalry going on with other heroines or the protag. These heroines get many of their scenes in events related to these rivalries.
Protagonist Archetypes defined by what they do (for a living) or what roles they play in the society.
These games have at least one hero who is an upperclassman of the protagonist. Some examples can be a senior at a work place or a student of a class some years above.
The protagonist's portrait is located at the side of the text box. It can be either shown only when he or she is speaking, or at all times he or she is present in the scene.
This VN gives you the option of turning on or off the protagonist's portrait that's located at the side of the text box.
One of this games heroines is protagonist's sister. Younger, older or twin doesn't really matter.
This game has the protagonist's sister as a support character. She is not the target of any romance from the protagonist unlike the similar heroine entry.
One or more of the heroines is the protagonist's sister-in-law.
One of the heroes is the protagonist's son.
These games feature heroes who are the twin brothers of the protagonist. Differs from Twin Brother Heroes in that they're the twin brother of the protagonist, not just random twin brothers.
These games feature heroines who are the twin sister of the protagonist. Differs from Twin Sister Heroines in that they're the twin sister of the protagonist, not just random twin sisters.
One of the heroes of the visual novel is the protagonist's uncle.
One of the heroines is (or was) the protagonist's wife.
One or more of this game's heroines are protagonist's younger sisters. It doesn't matter if they are blood-related to the protagonist or not.
The protagonist of this game is trapped in the body of an animal for a significant portion of the game.
The protagonist starts the game with a crush on one of the game's hero(in)es.
This game's protagonist has a face that is visible in CGs and/or on their sprite(s).
This is the exact opposite of Protagonist With a Face.
A game tagged with this tag has a protagonist, who for the majority of the game possesses an ahoge. Ahoge refers to a single, often large, lock of hair sticking out from the top of the head.
This game's protagonist has a mask that is visible in multiple CG's and sometimes featured as a sprite as well.
The protagonist of this VN has big breasts.
The protagonist of this visual novel has one or more children, whether biological or adopted. The children may or may not be characters in the game.
This game features a protagonist who has an eyepatch. He doesn't necessarily have to be blind in that eye; the only requirement is that the character wears it enough to be associated with it.
This protagonist of the game has facial hair. Facial hair is characterized by male grown on their faces, which includes growth of chin, cheeks and neck.
The protagonist of this VN has gigantic breasts.
For tags that can be used for a protagonist that's not in best of his health.
The protagonist has eyes of different colors.
The protagonist of this VN has huge breasts.
Protagonist in this game has one or more imaginary friends.
Protagonist of this story wears a kimono most of the time.
The protagonist suffers from split personality.
In this game, the protagonist doesn't have a default name. His/her name is given by the player.
These games have a voiced protagonists, but it's not often.
The protagonist of the game tagged with this tag is afflicted with the condition known as Phimosis, whereas the foreskin of his (or her) penis cannot be fully retracted from the head.
For protagonists suffering from a mental disorder.
The protagonist has a hymen that naturally regenerates/reconstructs itself after being torn.
Most of the VN's and and Eroge are pure love stories. Telling how the protagonist of this game found his/her first love and has his/her first sexual experience.
Protagonist of this game has a second personality that is much more powerful than his/her normal one.
This game features protagonist with tattoo.
Protagonist of this game is (or later becomes) a tentacle monster.
The protagonist is obsessed with objects used by the heroine(s). Common objects include used underwear, used tissue, hair, ect. Common actions include picking tissue from bin, stealing panty, panty/tissue sniffing, etc.
In this VN, the (nick)name you choose for the protagonist will be voiced.
A significant portion of the game takes place in a psionic academy.
This game features the use of psionics.
Problems regarding the mental health of its characters play an important role in this story.
Some characters in this game are suffering from a Psychological trauma.
At the start of these games, the player could choose if the participants would have pubic hair or not.
One or more characters got their pubic hair near genitals shaved during the story.
This VN contains sexual scenes involving girls subject to a form of sexual slavery called informally "public use" or "public cum dumpster".
A game with this tag features at least one scene in which somebody masturbates in public. It doesn't matter if this is carried out discreetly or openly.
This visual novel features characters from the Puella Magi Madoka Magica franchise.
This game features an art style where all (or most) characters look very cutesy and childish regardless of age.
One of the heroines in this game is a puppeteer.
This tag indicates that the game includes gameplay sequences involving puzzle solving.
This visual novel contains a scene that features a blowjob being performed by four or more characters together on a single penis.
One of the heroines in this game is a queen.
The protagonist of this game is a queen.
This character adopts the quickie fix position during a sexual intercourse scene.
This story features scenes of brief sex, also called a quickie.
This vn allows to return any previous scene by clicking that line from backlog.
These games have some quiz elements.
Denied
One or more heroines in this visual novel is a bunny-girl.
A heroine of this story is a driver of motor racing.
Protagonist of this story is a driver of motor racing.
This game has gameplay elements belonging to the racing game genre.
This story has elements from the rags to riches literature archetype.
This visual novel has many scenes featuring rain.
RainSpectre included it in his superlative Visual Novels you should read before you die list.
The choices in this game are done at random, without the player having any control of the outcome aside of luck manipulation (tool-assisted abuse of the pseudo-random algorithm).
Events in this visual novel, such as a random day where a character gets sick, can occur at any time throughout the playthrough, making no two playthroughs alike.
This game contains a story of rape by deception.
This game has at least one scene in which a character gets raped by someone other than the protagonist.
A person is forced to rape others by a possessed entity controlling them on the inside. Possessed entities include demons, ghosts, and spirits.
Two (or more) people are forced to have sex by a third party, through threats of violence or other means of coercion.
This game contains scenes of rape.
Rape scenes that occur within a transportation medium (usually a bus or a train).
One or more of the participants in some of the rape events in this game are under the effects of some drugs or medicines. This includes either sexuality-enhancing, inhibition-removing aphrodisiacs or various incapacitating substances such as sleeping pills.
This game makes "rape on defeat" or "rape on victory" one of his key mechanics.
All the rape in this VN is done by protagonist.
In this category rape victims actually start wanting sex and act consensually halfway through sex. This could be a temporary state of sex-crazedness or the person changing their mind about the attacker or even falling in love with them.
A hero of this game is a victim of a rape and the story involves the drama and psychological problems he has afterwards.
A heroine of this game is a victim of a rape and the story involves the drama and psychological problems she has afterwards.
Protagonist of this game is a victim of a rape and the story involves the drama and psychological problems he has afterwards.
This game contains scenes where an unwilling party gets blackmailed into having sex.
This game features scenes where a hero commits rape.
This game features scenes where a Heroine commits rape.
This game has one or multiple rats taking an important role in the story. Or it has rats all around on many scenes with multiple lines of dialogs related to them.
The game system markes previous read text in a different colour for easier recognition.
This tag is used for games that use photographs for their visuals (not just the backgrounds), or those that use a realistic art style.
These game's character designs look much more realistic than the average visual novel.
Most of the graphics in the game are 3D models, rendered in realtime.
This game has some elements from the real time strategy games genre.
This real time strategy game allows the players to pause the game during the action. The player can give orders to the troops, queue up units and buildings at the base or do other actions while the game is paused.
The back of the character sprite is shown.....
Rebellion against government plays a huge role in this visual novel.
A game with this tag has a sex scene in which a character engages in a sexual act while one or more people are recording it.
The theme of redemption has to some degree significant role in overall story.
A visual novel with this tag is set in a red-light district for some part or all of the game.
This game contains duo of heroines that are intended to be thematic opposite of each other.
One or more of the game's characters, human or not, are reincarnations of dead people (or animals or gods).
The main or at least a very important plot element in this VN is the resurrection of an evil being that was defeated/sealed long time ago.
This story features the concept of rejuvenation, the hypothetical reversal of the aging process.
This game is based on an Anime or has an Anime based on it. It does not necessarily need to share the exact same story, but it should at least take place in the same 'universe' with a similar cast (like a side-story).
These games have some sort of in-game chart, graph, or other system which displays how the characters relate to you. Examples: link or link
This tag is for games that has people in a relationship and having problems keeping that together.
This visual novel is based around the concept of  religion. It could contain divinities across different religious groups, or be about someone learning about a sanctified culture.
A hero in this VN is a devoted believer of a religion and he keeps talking about it frequently.
A heroine in this VN is a devoted believer of a religion and she keeps talking about it frequently.
A religious organization plays an important role in this story.
